                                                                                                                                     
 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
2021 Annual Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 16th 2022 
 
 
 
 
 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
1 
To Shareholders 
The year 2021 marks the 20th anniversary of Hikvision’s establishment and the 12th anniversary 
of its listing. Through 20 years of efforts, the Company has accumulated a wealth of successful 
experience in a number of technological segments, and is now positioning its field of business as the 
Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIoT). We believe that the company will continue to grow rapidly 
in the next 10 years with the development of AIoT.  
Over the past few years, the company has been bearing pressures from reverse globalization 
and has been making great efforts to offset some of the negative effects, in order to enable its 
products to serve more customers in the global market. At present, the company has established 66 
sales branches and service offices, as well as 3 manufacturing plants and 11 logistics centers in the 
overseas market, operating business in 155 countries and regions where we have sales and service 
partners. Dedicated to build ourselves into a global company, Hikvision will continue progressing 
persistently despite all the difficulties we may encounter. We believe that global economic 
integration is the best option for all people in the world.     
Technological innovation is the driving force behind Hikvision’s development, and only through 
continuous technological innovation can we realize sustainable development. Thanks to the consistent 
pursuit of technological innovation, Hikvision has achieved impressive results in the past 20 years. 
The company went public and raised RMB 3.4 billion in May 2010. In the past 12 years since, it has 
invested a total of RMB 35.4 billion in research and development, accumulated RMB 89.1 billion in 
net profits attributable to shareholders, and (will have) paid an accumulated dividend of RMB 43.2 
billion to shareholders. From 2017 to 2021, Hikvision ’s R&D investment accounted for 7.62%, 
8.99%, 9.51%, 10.04% and 10.13% out of the total revenue respectively, with the proportion 
increasing year by year. In the next 10 years, the company will continue to increase its R&D 
investment. We believe that technological innovation is the only way to bette r create value for our 
customers and reward our shareholders.        
Since 2015, Hikvision has been encouraging internal innovation and intrapreneurship 
through establishing a co-investment scheme, establishing eight innovative businesses over the 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
2 
years. In 2021, there were five innovative businesses with revenue exceeding RMB one billion, 
realizing a positive net profit. Among them, EZVIZ Network has submitted the IPO application, and 
the suggestive announcement on the spin-off of HikRobot for an independent listing has also been 
disclosed with relevant preparatory work currently underway. We believe that only when we share 
the profits with our employees can we unite the whole team working towards the same direction, 
and only by motivating the vitality of employees’ innovation and entrepreneurship can the company 
continue to thrive.   
Hikvision has built up a strong customer base and technology accumulation in the field of AIoT. 
As an effort to better create value for customers and enhance customer satisfaction, we are constantly 
striving to improve the company ’s operational capabilities and efficiency, while persevering in 
technological innovation. With the improvement of our operational capabilities and efficiency as a 
long-term goal, we will keep up with t he changing times and continue to build, optimize and refine 
our systems. We believe that there are no gains without pains.   
In the future, we will pace ourselves to encounter the challenges ahead and accept them as part 
of the evolution of the company. B eing open, transparent, and honest as always, we will make best 
efforts to resolve uncertainties brought by these challenges. We believe that adversity will make us 
stronger. 
Finally, we’d like to extend our sincere thanks to all shareholders for your trus t and support to 
the Company's management team! And express our special thanks to the public shareholders for their 
trust and support for the management team over the past 12 years!   
 
See far, go further! 
 
     
Board of Directors of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
April, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
3 
Section I Important Notes, Contents and Definitions 
The Board of Directors , Board of Supervisors , directors, supervisors and senior management 
guarantee that the information presented in this report is true, ac curate and complete without  false 
records, misleading statements or material omissions, and will undertake individual and joint legal 
liabilities. 
Chen Zongnian, the Company 's legal representative, Jin Yan, the person in charge of the 
accounting work, and Zhan Junhua, the person in charge of accounting department (accounting 
supervisor) hereby declare and warrant that the financial statements in this annual report are true, 
accurate and complete. 
All directors of the Company have attended the board meeting to review this report.   
The profit distribution proposal passed upon deliberation at the meeting of the Board of Directors 
is set out as follows: Board of Directors  based o n the Company ’s current total share capital of 
9,433,208,719 shares, the Company proposed to distribute cash dividend of RMB 9 (tax inclusive) 
per each 10 shares to all shareholders, bonus share and share distribution from capital reserve is nil. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  
This document is a translated version of the Chinese version 2021 Annual Report (“2021 年年度报
告”), and the published announcements in the Chinese version shall prevail. The complete published 
Chinese 2021 Annual Report may be obtained at www.cninfo.com.cn. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
4 
 
Please read the full annual report and pay particular attention to the following risk factors:  
1) Global COVID-19 epidemic risk: The global threat of COVID-19 epidemic is difficult to subside, and 
epidemic prevention has a direct impact on  the economic development. The Company will pay close 
attention to the changes in the epidemic and respond in a timely manner. If the epidemic causes the 
domestic and foreign economic or business environment to det eriorate, the adverse impact on the 
Company's business will increase accordingly. 
2) Economic downside risk: The current domestic and foreign economic environment is complex and 
volatile. The domestic macroeconomic growth has entered a new stage of medium-low growth. If demand 
recovers slowly and investment growth is sluggish, it will bring adverse impacts on the Company 's 
business development. 
3) Geopolitical environment risk: The current global geopolitical uncertainty has greatly increased, and 
the economic an d social impact caused by local wars and confrontations is huge. The Company 's 
operations in the countries and regions where the conflict is located may be adversely affected. 
4) Global business risks: The Company operates in more than 150 countries and regions around the world. 
The potential risks such as the trend of deglobalization, economic fluctuation and debt default around the 
world are difficult to eliminate, so the Company’s overseas business operations may be adversely affected. 
5) Supply chain risks: The global supply system is suffering from a variety of adverse impacts, such as 
rising commodity prices, restrictions on global production and lo gistic, and technological competition 
among major powers. The Company has been making efforts to enhance management for our supply chain 
and optimize inventory adjustment and control. However, if systemic risks arise in the global supply chain, 
the Company’s operating capabilities may be affected. 
6) Legal and compliance risk: The world's multilateral trading system is facing adverse impacts. The laws 
and regulations of various regions that need to be complied with for business activities are very 
complicated. China and overseas countries have stricter data supervision and business compliance 
requirements. If the Company's legal compliance capabilities cannot keep up with the situation, it will 
bring adverse impacts on the Company's operations.  
7) Risk of exchange rate fluctuation: The Company carries out operations in various countries and regions 
with different currencies, mainly settled in non -RMB currency (mainly in USD). Exchange rate 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
5 
fluctuations could have impact on foreign exchange exposures arising out of sales, procurement and 
financing, which could likely affect the profitability level of the Company. 
8) Risk of technology upgrade: Technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), big data, cloud computing, 
and edge computing are developing rapidly. The speed of technology diffusion is accelerating. If the 
Company is unable to closely track and adapt to the changes in cutting -edge technologies, or fails to 
quickly realize business innovation,  the risk of uncertainty in the Company's future development will 
increase. 
9) Financial risk caused by the decline of customers’ ability to pay: The enterprises’ financial liquidity 
is negatively impacted by the macroeconomic downturn. The Company has accumulated a certain amount 
of cash reserves due to the stable operation in history, and the financing cost is low. If the liquidity risk 
increases, it will adversely affect the Company’s account receivables. 
10) Risk of internal management:  The continual expansion of business scale, the continuous increase of 
new products and new businesses,  and the continuous growth in tot al number of employees le ad to a 
significant rise of internal management complexity , which brings challenges to the Company ’s 
management and higher requirements on the Company management system. The Company’s sustainable 
development will face certain risks if the management level fails to proportionally address the Company’s 
business expansion.  
11) Risk of cybersecurity: The Company has always attached great importance and taken active measures 
to enhance cybersecurity performance of our products and systems. However, in the context of Internet 
applications, there is still a possibility of deliberate attempts, including computer viruses, malicious 
software, hacker and others to intentionally attack our systems or products, causing cybersecurity issues. 
12) Risk of intellectual property (IP) rights: The Company continues to maintain a relatively large scale of 
R&D investment, and produces considerable technical mile stones. At the same time, the Company  
implements well-organized intellectual property right (IPR) protection measures. However, the risk of 
intellectual property disputes and the risk of intellectual property rights violations still exist. 
 
The above notices might not be all-inclusive of all other potential risks. Please pay attention to potential investment 
risks. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
6 
 
CONTENTS 
 
To Shareholders .................................................................................................................................................. 1 
Section I Important Notes, Contents and Definitions ...................................................................................... 3 
Section II Corporate Profile & Key Financial Data ......................................................................................... 9 
Section III Management Discussion and Analysis ......................................................................................... 15 
Section IV Corporate Governance ................................................................................................................ 139 
Section V Environmental and Social Responsibility .................................................................................... 182 
Section VI Significant Events ......................................................................................................................... 183 
Section VII Changes in Shares and Information about Shareholders ....................................................... 210 
Section VIII Information of Preferred Shares ............................................................................................. 224 
Section IX Bonds ............................................................................................................................................. 225 
Section X Financial Report ............................................................................................................................ 226 
Section XI Documents Available for Reference ........................................................................................... 402 
 
 
  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
7 
Definitions 
Term Definition 
Reporting Period From January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
Articles of Associations Articles of Associations for Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd 
Hikvision, the Company, our 
Company Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
CETC China Electronics Technology Group Ltd., the actual controller of the Company 
CETHIK CETHIK Group Co., Ltd. Controlling Shareholder of the Company  
EZVIZ, EZVIZ Network Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd.(According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
HikRobot, Robotic business Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to 
the corresponding business) 
HikAuto, Auto electronics 
business 
Hangzhou Hikauto Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to 
the corresponding business) 
HikMicro, Micro Sensing, 
Thermal imaging business 
Hangzhou Hikmicro Sensing Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also 
refers to the corresponding business) 
HikSemi, HikStorage, 
Storage business   
Wuhan Hikstorage Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to 
the corresponding business) 
HikImaging Hangzhou Hikimaging Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers 
to the corresponding business) 
HikFire Hangzhou Hikfire Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
Rayin, HikSecurityCheck  Hangzhou Rayin Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
Hangzhou Innovation 
Industry Park 
Located in Hangzhou, Binjiang District, Zhejiang Province, the planned use is for 
R&D, office space and supporting facilities.  
Chengdu Science and 
Technology Park 
Located in Chengdu, Sichuan Province, the planned use is for R&D, office space 
and supporting facilities.  
Chongqing Science and 
Technology Park 
Located in Chongqing, the planned use is for production plants, warehouses and 
supporting facilities. 
Xi’an Science and 
Technology Park 
Located in Xi'an, Shaanxi Province, the planned use is for R&D, office space and 
supporting facilities. 
Shijiazhuang Science and 
Technology Park 
Located in Shijiazhuang City, Hebei Province, the planned use is R&D, office 
space and supporting facilities. 
Security Industrial Base 
(Tonglu) 
Located in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, the planned use is for production plants, 
logistics warehousing center and supporting facilities. 
Wuhan Intelligence Industry Located in Wuhan, Hubei Province, the planned use is for production plants, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
8 
Term Definition 
Park warehouses and supporting facilities.  
Zhengzhou Science and 
Technology Park  
Located in Zhengzhou, Henan Province, the planned use is R&D, office space and 
supporting facilities, etc. 
EZVIZ Industrial Base 
EZVIZ Smart Home Products’ Industrial Base, located in Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
Province, is planned to be used for R&D, office space and supporting facilities of 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. 
Innovative Business 
A long investment cycle, business prospects uncertain, has the high risk and 
uncertainty, in need for direct or indirect investment in exploration, in order for the 
Company to timely enter into new areas of business. Initially disclosed in 
Announcement about Management Measures for Core Staff Investment in 
Innovative Business (《核心员工跟投创新业务管理办法》) 
(www.cninfo.com.cn). 
In this report, innovative business also refers to EZVIZ, HikRobot, HikAuto, 
HikMicro, HikSemi, HikImaging, HikFire, Rayin and their related business or 
products.  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                                                     
9 
Section II Corporate Profile & Key Financial Data 
I. Corporate Information 
Stock abbreviation HIKVISION Stock code 002415 
Stock exchange where the shares of the Company 
are listed Shenzhen Stock Exchange 
Name of the Company in Chinese 杭州海康威视数字技术股份有限公司 
Abbr. of the Company name in Chinese  海康威视 
Name of the Company in English (if any) HANGZHOU HIKVISION DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD 
Abbr. of the Company name in English (if any) HIKVISION 
Legal representative Chen Zongnian 
Registered address No. 555 Qianmo Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou 
Postal code of Registered address 310051 
Changes in the Company's registered address 
The Company was listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange on May 28th 2010. The 
original registered address was No. 36 MachengRoad, Xihu District, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang Province. In 2016, the Company's registered address was changed to No. 
555 Qianmo Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province. 
Business address No. 518 WuLianWang Street, Binjiang District, Hangzhou 
Postal code of Business address 310051 
Company website www.hikvision.com 
E-mail market@hikvision.com; ir@hikvision.com 
II. Contacts and Contact Information 
 Board Secretary Securities Affairs Representative 
Name Huang Fanghong Zhou Xinyi 
Address No. 518 WuLianWang Street, Binjiang 
District, Hangzhou 
No. 518 WuLianWang Street, Binjiang 
District, Hangzhou 
Tel. 0571-88075998; 0571-89710492 0571-89710492 
Fax 0571-89986895 0571-89986895 
E-mail hikvision@hikvision.com hikvision@hikvision.com 
III. Information Disclosure and Place of the Report 
Media designated by the Company for information disclosure Securities Times, China Securities Journal 
Website specified by CSRC for release of the Annual Report www.cninfo.com.cn 
Place where the Annual Report is available for inspection Office of the Board of Directors of the Company 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                                                     
10 
IV. Company Registration and Alteration 
Organization code 91330000733796106P 
Changes in principle business activities since the 
Company was listed (if any) 
During the reporting period, the Company added the following to the business 
scope: manufacturing of special labour protecti ve supplies; sales of special 
labour protective supplies; sales of digital cultural and creative technological 
equipment; parking lot services; digital cultural and creative content application 
services; environmental protection monitoring; production of Class II and Class 
III radiation devices; sales of Class II and Class III radiation devices; 
radioisotope production (except for short -half-life radioactive pharmaceuticals 
for medical use); sales of Class II, Class III, Class IV and Class V radioactive 
sources; goods import and export  and technology import and export. At the 
same time, the Company  adjusted the description of its business scope in 
accordance with the latest regulatory requirements of the industry and 
commerce authorities for business scope. After the change, the Company ’s 
business scope covers: licensed items: production of Class II and Class III 
radiation devices; sales of Class II and Class III radiation devices; radioisotope 
production (except for short -half-life radioactive pharmaceutical s for medical 
use); sales of Class II, Class III, Class IV and Class V radioactive sources; all 
kinds of engineering and construction acti vities; goods import and export  and 
technology import and export (as for the items which by law are subject to 
approval, business activities can be carried out only after having been approved 
by the relevant departments, and the specific operation items are subject to the 
terms of the approval). General items: manufacturing of digital video 
surveillance systems; sales of digital video surveillance systems; manufacturing  
of security equipment;  sales of security equipment; manufacturing of IoT 
equipment; sales of IoT equipment; manufacturing of intelligent unmanned 
aerial drones; sales of intelligent unmanned aerial drones;  manufacturing of 
service consumption robots; manufacturing of industrial robots; manufacturing 
of robots for special operations; sales of intelligent robots; manufacturing of 
computer software and hardware and peripherals; wholesale of computer 
software a nd hardware and auxiliary equipment; manufacturing of 
communication equipment; sales of communication equipment; manufacturing 
of network equipment; sales of network equipment; manufacturing of display 
devices; sales of display devices; manufacturing of in telligent mobile 
equipment; sales of intelligent mobile equipment; manufacturing of auto parts 
and accessories; wholesale of auto parts and accessories; manufacturing of 
electric signal appliances and devices; sales of electric signal appliances and 
devices; manufacturing of mechanical and electrical equipment; sales of 
mechanical and electrical equipment; manufacturing of special labour 
protective supplies; sales of special labour protective supplies; sales of 
electronic products; sales of digital cultural  and creative technological 
equipment; technical services, technical development, technical consultation, 
technical knowledge exchange, technology transfer and technology promotion; 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                                                     
11 
software development; information system integration services; computer 
system services; research and development of IoT technologies; IoT technology 
services; IoT application services; big data services; data processing and storage 
support services; security system monitoring services; security technology 
defense system’s design and construction services; electronic and mechanical 
equipment maintenance (excluding special equipment); parking lot services; 
digital cultural and creative content application services; environmental 
protection monitoring; for-profit private training institution engaged in science 
and technology training (excluding subjects and language cultural education 
and training for primary and secondary school students). (Except for items 
which by law are subject to approval, the Company can determine and carry out 
operational activities in accordance with the law by virtue of its business 
license).  
Changes of controlling shareholders of the 
Company (if any) No change during the reporting period 
V. Other Relevant Information 
Accounting firm engaged by the Company 
Name of the accounting firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
Business address of the accounting firm 30F Bund Center 222 Yan An Road East Shanghai 
Name of accountants for writing signature Tang Lianjiong, Gao Sunchao 
Sponsor institution engaged by the Company to continuously perform its supervisory function during the Reporting 
Period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
Financial advisor engaged by the Company to perform the duties of continuous supervision during the reporting 
period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
VI. Key Accounting Data and Financial Indicators 
Whether the Company performed a retrospective adjustment or restatement of previous accounting data 
□Yes √No 
Unit: RMB 
 2021 2020 
YoY Change 
(%) 
2019 
Operating income (RMB) 81,420,053,539.27 63,503,450,891.78 28.21% 57,658,110,065.22 
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the Company 
(RMB) 
16,800,411,032.05 13,385,526,714.15 25.51% 12,414,587,690.45 
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the Company 
excluding non-recurring gains and losses (RMB) 
16,444,723,630.97 12,805,839,276.44 28.42% 12,037,518,321.42 
Net cash flows from operating activities (RMB) 12,708,524,686.99 16,088,156,566.67 -21.01% 7,767,720,171.14 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                                                     
12 
Basic earnings per share (RMB/share) 1.810 1.445 25.26% 1.343 
Diluted earnings per share (RMB/share) 1.806 1.444 25.07% 1.343 
Weighted average ROE  28.99% 27.72% 1.27% 30.53% 
 
At December 31st 
2021 
At December 31st 
2020 
YoY Change 
(%) 
At December 31st 
2019 
Total assets (RMB) 103,864,543,195.18 88,701,682,384.20 17.09% 75,358,000,240.29 
Net assets attributable to shareholders of the Company 
(RMB) 
63,460,886,665.26 53,794,311,162.05 17.97% 44,904,033,876.83 
 
The total share capital of the Company as of the previous trading day of the annual report disclosure: 
The total share capital of the Company as of the previous trading day of the annual report disclosure 
(share) 
9,433,208,719 
Fully diluted earnings per share calculated with the latest share capital 
Fully diluted earnings per share (RMB/share) calculated with the latest share capital 1.781 
VII. Differences in Accounting Data between Domestic and Overseas Accounting Standards 
1. Difference in the Financial Report of Net Profits and Net Assets According to the D isclosure of 
International Financial Reporting Standards and China Accounting Standards 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no difference in the financial report of net profits and net assets according to the disclosure of International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and China Accounting Standards in the reporting period. 
2. Difference in the Financial Report of Net Profits and Net Assets According to the D isclosure of Overseas 
Accounting Standards and China Accounting Standards 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no difference in the financial report of net profits and net assets according to the disclosure of Overseas 
Accounting Standards and China Accounting Standards in the reporting period. 
3. Explanation of the Differences in Accounting Data under Domestic and Overseas Accounting Standards 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
VIII. Key Quarterly Financial Indicators  
   Unit：RMB 
 
 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                                                     
13 
Whether there is significant difference between the above individual or aggregate financial indicators and that of 
what disclosed in the quarterly report, half-year report 
□ Yes √ No 
IX. Items and Amounts of Non-recurring Gains and Losses 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit：RMB 
Item 2021 2020 2019 
Profits or losses from disposal of non-current assets (including the 
write-off for the impairment provision of assets) 
26,069,469.18  -5,836,675.36   -2,053,875.22  
The government subsidies included in the current profits and losses 
(excluding the government subsidy closely related to regular 
course of business of the Company and government subsidy based 
on standard quota or quantitative continuous application according 
to the state industrial policy) 
576,619,421.07  571,403,657.30   413,790,429.84  
The investment cost of the Company to obtain subsidiaries, 
associates and joint ventures is less than the income generated by 
the fair value of the investee's identifiable  net assets when the 
investment is obtained 
1,163,932.96  281,193.50  - 
Net gains and losses from beginning of the reporting period to the 
merge date for the subsidiary merged involving enterprises under 
common control 
- -  -885,138.65  
Profits and losse s attributed to change in fair value for held -for-
trading financial assets and held -for-trading financial liabilities; 
and investment income from disposal of held-for-trading financial 
assets, held -for-trading financial liabilities, and other available -
for-sale financial assets, excluding the effective hedging business 
related to the regular business operation of the Company.  
75,408,081.63  98,373,869.75   26,872,639.66  
Investment losses on disposal of subsidiaries and other business 
units 
-169,184,641.43 - - 
Other non -operating income and expenditures except the items 
mentioned above  
-1,471,007.77  74,007,631.14   52,155,026.79  
 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter 
Operating income 13,988,385,531.58 19,913,712,836.52  21,727,169,122.78  25,790,786,048.39  
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the 
Company 2,169,440,312.25 4,311,984,341.14  4,484,216,504.72  5,834,769,873.94 
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the 
Company excluding non-recurring gains 
and losses  
2,022,056,316.46 4,199,420,311.52  4,472,421,937.46  5,750,825,065.53 
Net cash flows from operating activities  -2,018,107,114.23 3,980,960,886.38  1,969,077,130.08  8,776,593,784.76  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                                                     
14 
Less:  Impact of income tax  29,930,824.64  109,931,807.07   86,193,406.35  
Impact of the minority interests (after tax) 122,987,029.92  48,610,431.55   26,616,307.04  
Total 355,687,401.08  579,687,437.71   377,069,369.03  
 
Details of other gain/loss items that meet the definition of non-recurring gains and losses: 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company did not have other gain/ loss items that meet the definition of non-recurring gains and losses. 
 
Explain the reasons if the Company classifies any non-recurring gain/loss item mentioned in the  <Explanatory 
Announcement No. 1 on Information Disclosure for  Companies Offering Their Securities to the Public —Non-
recurring Gains and Losses> as a recurrent gain/loss item 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company did not classify an item as a non-recurring gain/loss according to the <Explanatory Announcement 
No. 1 on Information Disclosure for Companies Offering Their Securities to the Public—Non-recurring Gains and 
Losses> into a recurrent gain/loss item.
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
15 
Section III Management Discussion and Analysis 
I. The Industry Situation and Main Business of the Company during the Reporting Period 
1. Business Overview  
After more than 20 years of development, the Internet of Things (IoT 1 ) is integrated with AI (Artificial 
Intelligence) to form the AIoT. When devices are able to perceive changes, connect with each other, and interact 
with people and things, they could bring about changes like never before. And those changes are happening right 
now.  
AIoT is a fundamental capability that provides the possibility of connection and interaction between people 
and things as well as between things. This possibility is not exclusive to any industry, but there are pioneer, typical 
industrial scenarios in AIoT, such as intelligent security, industrial IoT, smart home, etc. We believe that AIoT will 
set off a wave of technological innovation that will sweep across many industries. And armed with technology 
accumulations in multiple fields and years of deep engagement in the industrial market, we are confident that 
Hikvision will be able to seize the opportunities brought by the rapid development of AIoT. Through constant 
expansion and iteration of the industrial AIoT application, Hikvision continues to improve the business organization 
for public services, enterprises, and SMEs, and has successively developed innovative businesses such as EZVIZ 
Network, HikRobot, HikMicro, HikAuto, HikSemi, HikFire, Rayin and Hik Imaging, with a focus on the 
implementation of businesses for large-scale scenarios.    
Generally speaking, the Internet of Things is divided into three layers, namely the perception layer, the network 
transmission layer and the application layer. Starting with video technology and driven by technological innovation, 
Hikvision continues to expand and deploy in such fields as visible light, millimeter wave, infrared rays and X-rays 
etc., while integrating sound, temperature, humidity, pressure, magnetic and other perception means to create a 
comprehensive, multi-dimensional perception technology platform to provide technical support for AIoT on the 
perception layer. The Company focuses on the external conditions of network transmission as it is not a major area 
of business for Hikvision. In terms of the application layer, the three business groups (3 BGs) and innovative 
businesses of Hikvision are working together with industrial partners to explore and promote the AIoT applications. 
                                                                 
1 IoT：Internet of Things. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
16 
As the application scenarios of AIoT are highly fragmented, products and solutions will continue to be defined by 
scenarios as we work to meet user demands for a long time in the future. A rich and comprehensive set of hardware 
and software products are needed to support the scenario-based demands of AIoT. In the future, Hikvision will stick 
to its product R&D approach combining generic baselines with customizations, identify the common demands of 
various segments and fields in the process of expanding the market, and pushes further  the modularization of 
products and the optimized combination of modules, thereby providing personalized, customized and highly 
converged IoT solutions in an efficient and cost-effective manner.    
In the past two decades, Hikvision has witnessed and parti cipated in the development and expansion of the 
security industry. Intelligent security is a major battleground for the implementation of AIoT.  In the future, 
Hikvision is committed to serving various industries through its cutting -edge technologies of machine perception, 
artificial intelligence, and big  data, leading the future of AIo T：Through comprehensive machine perception 
technologies, we aim to help people better connect with the world around them; With a wealth of intelligent products, 
we strive to identify and satisfy diverse demands by delivering intelligence at your fingertips; Through innovative 
AIoT applications, we are dedicated to empowering every individual to enjoy a better future by building an 
intelligent world that is more convenient, efficient and secure. 
2. Core Business Capabilities 
Hikvision, focusing on technological innovation in IoT perception, AI and big data, offers serialized AIoT 
products integrating software and hardware, cloud and edges, IoT and information network, and big data and AI, 
with the whole-process service capability for building complex large-scale AIoT systems. Over the past 20 years, 
Hikvision has expanded its coverage of perceptive technology from visible light to millimeter wave, infrared rays, 
X-rays and soun d wave etc., widened its product range from IoT perceptive devices to AIoT products, IT 
infrastructure products, platform service products, data service products and application service products which are 
fully integrated with AI and big data technologies. As a result, the Company has extended beyond comprehensive 
security to such fields as smart home, digital enterprises, intelligent industries and smart cities.  As a product 
company equipped with system capabilities, Hikvision builds an open and cooperativ e ecosystem with business 
covering more than 150 countries and regions around the world.    
Hikvision’s business can be summarized into three types of supporting technologies, five categories of software 
and hardware products, four system capabilities, two  types of business organizations and two marketing systems. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
17 
Among them, the three supporting technologies include IoT perception technologies, AI technologies and big data 
technologies; the five categories of software and hardware include IoT perception pr oducts, IT infrastructure 
products, platform service products, data service products and application service products; the four system 
capabilities include system design and development, system engineering implementation, system operation and 
maintenance m anagement and system operation services; the two types of business organizations cover three 
business groups (public business groups-PBG, enterprise business groups-EBG and SME business groups-SMBG) 
and eight innovative businesses (smart home, mobile robot s and machine vision, infrared thermal imaging, auto 
electronics, intelligent storage, intelligent fire protection and control, intelligent security check, and intelligent 
medical services) ; the two major marketing systems refer to the domestic business m arketing system and the 
international business marketing system.    
In the field of AIoT, Hikvision has been focusing on technological innovation, enriching product systems and 
building system capability for many years, with its technological capabilities,  product capabilities and system 
capabilities complementing each other and growing together.   
2.1 Integration of Software and Hardware: Constant Mutual Promotion between Software and Hardware 
Product Systems 
In recent years, Hikvision has unified the software development system, standardized the hardware 
development process, provided a unified embedded software platform for various equipment, and unified interface 
specifications for networking accessing and operation and maintenance management of various equipment, ushering 
the development of software and hardware products into a benign iterative cycle. 
2.1.1 Unified Equipment Software Platform 
Various hardware product types, diversified product operating environments, and different product operation 
and maintenance management ways have posed major challenges to the development of the IoT business. In this 
context, Hikvision has launched HEOP (Hikvision Embedded Open Platform) to support containerized independent 
deployment and flexible scheduling of algorithms or components for the sustainable development of AIoT. 
Hikvision’s new products are all developed based on this platform. On this unified embedded software platform, 
all AIoT equipment of Hikvision will feature the same software foundation to avoid the differences between various 
hardware development and operating environments, and support function changes of hardware products through 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
18 
software upgrades to improve development efficiency significantly. 
In addition, partners can realize iterative development of intelligent application functions of AIoT equipment 
based on HEOP efficiently, and work with Hikvision to create value for customers. 
2.1.2 Unified Software Support for Equipment 
Hikvision provides various AIoT equipment with unified access, netw orking, operation and maintenance 
support capabilities through a unified intelligent perception networking platform, making the large -scale AIoT a 
reality. 
The unified device access framework supports the connection of various video equipment, multi-dimensional 
sensing equipment, and intelligent equipment. With open interfaces and protocols, various AIoT equipment can 
access Hikvision’s software platforms. And the development of equipment network access drivers is relatively 
separated from application software, that is, we can set up the platform first and then develop device drivers. 
Networking is possible in a large scale to support a variety of IoT perception equipment in line with national 
standards and multi-industry standard specifications. And the integrated operation and maintenance service platform 
is applicable to a variety of IoT devices and IT equipment. 
Moreover, partners, through the interface provided by the intelligent perception networking platform, can 
connect other manufacturers’ IoT equipment to the same software platform. 
2.1.3 R&D Synergy between Software and Hardware 
At Hikvision, the R&D of software or hardware meeting customer requirements, application scenarios, 
industry characteristics and other demands is not carried out separately in most cases. Offering the best solutions to 
meet users’ demands is our top priority. So, you will find that the hardware development demands may be completed 
by the software R&D team, while the software development demands may be undertaken by the hardwa re R&D 
team. We have formed a synergy between these two R&D types with the two teams supporting each other. When 
communicating with users on business needs, software personnel will advise them on the hardware equipment they 
need; and for the newly develope d intelligentequipment, the software team will develop application software that 
maximizes their value.  
Software demand drives hardware R&D. When understanding the demands of relevant industries and 
designing software functions, the business team will analyze the demands for hardware products at the same time, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
19 
and timely feedback to the hardware products and AI algorithm team. 
Hardware capabilities drives software development. Leveraging Hikvision’s strong hardware research and 
development capabilities, the hardware team is committed to introduce new hardware devices. The software team, 
through in-depth communication with the hardware team, keeps abreast of the latest developments in hardware 
products, and rolls out new application software R&D in a timely manner to maximize the functions of hardware 
equipment and reflect the application value of the equipment. 
2.2 Cloud -Edge Fusion: the Promotion of Perception Fusion Empowering Platform has Achieved 
Remarkable Progress 
2.2.1 Perception Fusion Empowering Platform: Realizes Intelligent Fusion and Utilization of Front and Back 
Ends  
Aiming at “co -construction of locations, resource sharing, algorithm co -management, computing power 
integration, and service sharing”, Hikvision’s perception fusion empowering platform is geared towards the fusion 
and utilization of industrial or urban IoT perception resources. As for perception resource construction, it supports 
access networking, lean management and planning and deployment of front-end devices to realize “co-construction 
of locations”. For perception resource utilization, the label association, fast retrieval, and on -demand access of 
perception data are readily available for “resource sharing”. In terms of algorithm management, the open training, 
unified management, and flexible programming of intelligent algorithms together make “algorithm co-management” 
possible. In the aspect of intelligent computing power integration, the platform supports the unified management, 
load monitoring and reasonable scheduling of computing power resources to achieve “computing power integration”. 
Lastly, in terms of intelligent analysis s ervice, there are directory publishing, business application and service 
configuration of intelligent services for “service sharing”. 
Hikvision’s perception fusion empowering platform provides competence center, application center, 
programming center, investigation and judgment center, operation center, and management center. The competence 
center provides the classification and search services of perception resources, and releases intelligent service 
capabilities; the application center serves for the appl ication and review management of perception resources and 
intelligent analysis services; the programming center is for scene tag management, scene configuration, and 
intelligent analysis algorithm programming for the perception resources of the IoT; the investigation and judgment 
center features functions such as automatic push of intelligent analysis events, manual investigation and judgment, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
20 
event statistics and retrieval; the operation center offers intelligent service applications, intelligent service t ask 
monitoring, execution statistics, regular operation reports and other functions to business managing personnel; the 
management center is characterized by management functions covering background resource management 
scheduling platform, IoT resources and algorithm resources for technical operation and maintenance personnel.  
2.2.2 AI Open Platform: Makes Front-End Intelligent and Definable 
In the process of industrial upgrading, there are a lot of intelligent application demands, which are closely 
related to users’ business scenarios. Hikvision’s AI open platform, as a one -stop algorithm training platform for 
fragmented industrial application scenarios, is capable of training high-accuracy algorithms based on small sample 
data. Easy to operate, the AI op en platform can generate targeted intelligent algorithms through sample data 
collection, online data labeling and online algorithm training, which can then be deployed to Hikvision’s various 
hardware devices.     
In 2021, the AI open platform has been enha nced with a number of core capabilities: the launch of voice 
classification, text recognition and data intelligence marks the expansion of its open platform capabilities from 
visual capabilities to multi -modal capabilities; the launch of self -learning enables users to continuously improve 
algorithm accuracy by using data generated in actual use without calibration; the launch of programming platform 
has further lowered the barrier to entry by equipping the platform with low-code development capability for complex 
intelligent applications.       
By the end of 2021, the AI open platform has served more than 8,000 enterprise users, generated 50,000 models 
and implemented 4,000 projects in total.   

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
21 
 
2.2.3 The Self-Learning System: Support the Autonomous Improvement of Algorithm Accuracy 
Currently, most AI algorithms are based on supervised learning and require a lot of manpower to annotate data. 
Labeled training data is finite and incomplete, but real-world scenarios for algorithm deployment are characterized 
by infinite possibilities.  
Hikvision has built a self -learning system that can autonomously screen, annotate and train real data in 
application scenarios without human intervention, continuously improving the accuracy of algorithms and evolving 
on its own. The system supports both cloud and edge deployment and co-evolves on the two ends. At the edge, in 
particular, Hikvision launched the first self -learning device with ultra -low power consumption —less than 15 
watts—based on domestically made chips in the industry. In the perimeter prevention application of a steel mill, the 
false alarm rate was reduced by 97% within 10 months after the self-learning algorithm was deployed. The related 
technology has won two championships in the autonomous learning/continual l earning competition of the 
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV).     
Self-learning products applicable to perimeter prevention, urban management (roadside stalls, illegal 
construction projects, manhole cover anomalies and etc.) and other scenarios have been released. Hikvision believes 
that through self-learning technology, machines can be endowed with the ability to evolve on their own, so that the 
more the system is used, the smarter and more user-friendly it gets.  
 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
22 
 
2.2.4 Algorithm Database: Provides a Basis for Algorithm Reuse 
Hikvision’s algorithm database manages algorithms of different vendors, different functions, and different 
forms in a unified way, providing a basis for the reuse of intelligent algorithms. 
Formulating a complete algorithm description specification, Hikvision’s algorithm database can describe and 
manage the name, type, function, technical parameters, application scenarios, operating environment and other 
characteristics of the algorithm, so as to provide the appropriate technical environment or scheduling parameters to 
deploy, arrange, and manage algorithms, and work together with the resource management scheduling platform to 
realize the unified management of intelligent algorithms and on-demand scheduling. 
2.3 Fusion of IoT and Information Network: Data Resource Platform Continues to Play an Im portant Role 
in Multiple Industries 
Hikvision’s iDatafusion platform has been applied and promoted in various fields such as public safety, traffic 
management, bus scheduling, water conservancy and water affairs, natural resources, financial anti -fraud, an d 
campus management. Through the fusion, management, mining and service of perception data and business data, it 
provides users with data models and applications, and meets users’ business application needs. 
2.3.1 iDatafusion Platform: Brings Out a Complete Product System 
Hikvision’s iDatafusion platform provides users with data integration, data processing, data analysis, data 
sharing, data services, and model repository capabilities. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
23 
 
The data resource platform provides data integration tools such as dat a integration workbench, general data 
collector, data exploration, data definition and data simulation, etc., data processing tools such as data development 
workbench, data desensitization and quality inspection, etc., data analysis tools such as BI 2 visual analysis, data 
mining engines, knowledge graphs, data cubes, and space -time engines, etc., data sharing tools such as API 
(Application Programming Interface) gateways, data cascades, etc., and data service capabilities such as data 
catalogs, IoT catalogs, API catalogs, data subscriptions, data exchanges, etc. Among them, data mining engines and 
knowledge graphs together constitute the intelligent cognitive open capabilities based on the AI open platform, and 
the data analysis operators and data model s formed thereby can be further utilized by other analysis tools such as 
the data cubes.  
To effectively improve the quality of IoT data, Hikvision advocates IoT data management from the source, and 
provides comprehensive management applications for IoT elements, offering a series of management tools such as 
equipment management, space calibration, and transportation unit management; to better serve industries, we also 
provide a series of optional data service product add -ons packages such as perception dat a service, multi -
dimensional data fusion service, general application data service, industry application data service, etc., to elevate 
the efficiency of application development based on the data resource platform. 
2.3.2 Model Repository: Provides a Basis for Model Reuse 
With models as the granularity, Hikvision’s model repository provides unified data model deliverables 
                                                                 
2 BI：Business Intelligence. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
24 
description specifications to manage the process or task of data tools such as data integration workbench, data 
development workbench, data mining engines, data cubes, BI visualization analysis, and API gateways associated 
with models. Possessing such capabilities as model release, version management, information inquiry, statistical 
analysis, and integrated deployment to serve all 3 rd parties developing models based on tools of the iDatafsion 
platform, this repository can facilitate model reuse between various projects. 
The final deliverable of the data model can be the dataset, API service, or BI visualization chart that supports 
the application. A data model can be used for multiple applications, and an application can rely on the support of 
multiple data models. 
The model repository functions as a foundation for the reuse of data models in multiple application sites. 
 
2.4 Big Data-Intelligence Fusion: Intelligent Application Open Platform Empowers More Industries 
2.4.1 Intelligent Application Open Platform: Support Universal Intelligent Application Scenarios 
Hikvision has set up the intelligent application open platform for edge node appli cations, edge domain 
applications, cloud center applications, and Internet operation applications respectively, to support universal 
intelligent application scenarios. 
Edge Node Hikvision Embedded Open Platform (HEOP) : HEOP has been connected with the Hikvision 
Infocloud application market in 2021, complete with processes for partner admission, APP development, APP 
transaction and APP deployment. By developing, listing and trading APPs online, our developer partners prov ide 
value-added services for device users. Once the device is added to the Infocloud Platform, users will be able to 
manage and control the device for the ordering, deployment and use of APPs on a mobile terminal. Under the HEOP 
architecture, all kinds of hardware will be containerized and various algorithms generated on demand and switched 
freely. Developers can also use IDE tools with built-in APP code templates to deploy the development environment 
with just one click and complete model tuning and packaging. Hikvision continues to host HEOP developer training 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
25 
camps to help ecological partners reach thousands of industries with products and applications by virtue of the 
Company’s platform capabilities. 
 
Edge Domain Intelligent Application Platform (Hikvision iSee): Provides a development framework for 
edge domain intelligent applications, and general service capabilities that can be integrated into this framework, 
including video live view and playback, access control, video intercom, elevator contr ol and other connected 
perception capabilities and video intelligent analysis functions, in addition to a number of optional common 
functional components. Developers can further develop dedicated components that meet specific application 
requirements on this basis. 
Cloud Center Intelligent Application Platform (Hikvision iFar ): Provides a development framework for 
cloud center intelligent applications, and general service capabilities that can be integrated into this framework, 
including comprehensive data intelligence application support capabilities such as IoT perception, intelligent 
analysis, and big data analysis. Developers can further develop dedicated components that meet specific application 
requirements on this basis. 
Internet operation application  open platform (Hikvision Infocloud) : Based on EZVIZ cloud, provides 
business operation service support capabilities for cities and industries, and a public Internet underlying platform 
(supporting the access and management of hundreds of millions of devic es) and Internet-based high-concurrency 
business services for industry users. The tenant platform integrates shared service units such as resource services 
and user services for the rapid up integration by business platform; the operating platform mainly delivers product 
services, project services, etc., for operators to manage products and projects; intelligent services support people -
vehicle identification, OCR text recognition, intelligent voice recognition, AI training service, data annotation, 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
26 
intelligent application engine, etc. So far, we have provided cloud-based platforms for online business operation for 
more than ten fields, including parking operation, smart community operation, body temperature screening 
operation, fire protection operation, intelligent waste classification management, vehicle safety management and 
online cloud-based court trials etc.   
2.4.2 Component Database: Provides a Basis for Software Reuse 
Hikvision’s unified software technology system supports the “architecture + component” development model. 
And our component database has gathered over 4,800 components of various types for four development 
architectures. 
Hikvision’s component database manages the component development of internal software development teams 
around the wor ld in a unified manner to avoid repeated component development plans, and combine and divide 
components with repeated functions, thereby reducing development and maintenance costs. 
The Hikvision component database, as an alternative source for software function reuse, offers a large number 
of common functional components which support multiple development frameworks at the same time. Developers 
can further develop dedicated components that meet specific application requirements on this basis, and use the 
tools provided by Hikvision’s unified technology system to package, deploy and manage components. The software 
development process based on Hikvision’s unified software technology system can be boiled down to “selecting 
architecture + selecting components + configuring components + developing new components + integration”, 
thereby improving the consistency and compatibility of the software released by us while ensuring high software 
quality. 
2.5 Systems Engineering: Undertake the Engineering Implementation of Large-Scale Complex IoT System  
Compared with regular IT systems, AIoT systems are characterized by high fragmentation, difficulties in front-
end survey and design, difficulties in construction process management, multiple system -integrated elements, and 
difficulties in operation and maintenance, etc. As a result, problems such as uncontrollable project duration and 
construction quality have been found in the implementation of small-scale AIoT systems, let alone the engineering 
complementation of large-scale complex AIoT systems.   
Looking at the construction of intelligent industries and smart cities in recent years, the scale of AIoT systems 
have been constantly expanding. Provincial -level forest fire prevention, water conservancy supervision, border 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
27 
control and other industrial construction projects, as well as city -level construction projects such as smart cities, 
safe cities and Xueliang projects, continue to emerge. Engineering projects like these require a construction team of 
hundreds or even thousan ds of people, with a wide range of construction operations, multiple types of front -end 
perception devices and complex intelligent application functions. In other words, we have to upgrade the Company’s 
AIoT system engineering implementation capabilities to the next level.     
For this reason, Hikvision has been explicitly and constantly required by users to directly undertake the total 
integration task of ultra -large-scale complex AIoT system projects in recent years. And in response to such 
requirements, Hikvision makes full use of its advantages in AIoT products and unified software technology systems 
as well as its technical service teams distributed all over the country, and provides whole -process services from 
system design and development, system project implementation to system operation and maintenance management 
for the implementation of some large -scale complex AIoT systems engineering projects based on project scale, 
system complexity and the degree of urgency of users’ demands.     
Hikvision is capable of undertaking the total integration of large-scale projects thanks to the Company’s unified 
software technology system that has been fully built. Based on the component -based development model, the 
software of large-scale projects can be developed through distributed collaboration and integrated efficiently by the 
headquarters and regional teams; based on the unified device access framework, the Company’s own products can 
be quickly integrated with third -party IoT perception products; based on Hikvi sion’s iDatafusion platform, it can 
quickly integrate users’ existing multi -source heterogeneous perception data and business data, and provide 
governance services of perception data and business data at the same time; based on the Intelligent Application 
Open Platform, intelligent application systems involving multiple algorithms, multiple roles and multi -terminal 
login can be quickly built; based on the Integrated Operation and Maintenance Service Platform, it can provide 
operation and maintenance service support capabilities integrating front and back ends, internal and external fields, 
and upper and lower levels.  
In 2021, by taking on some large -scale complex AIoT systems engineering projects, Hikvision has further 
enhanced its platform support capacity  and team collaboration in complex system design and development, IOT 
data governance, construction process management, system operation and maintenance etc., and optimized and 
reorganized the Company’s system project implementation team, laying a solid fo undation for undertaking more 
intelligent industry and smart city projects in the future.   
Meanwhile, Hikvision has explored a mode of closer cooperation with ecological partners in practice. In 
addition to the integration of ultra-large-scale complex systems where users have specific requirements, Hikvision 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
28 
will continue to play its role as a product provider, supporting more integrators and operation and maintenance 
service providers with products and technologies. 
2.6 Ecological Empowerment: Forms an All-round Open Ecological Cooperation and Empowerment System 
2.6.1 Open System: Open Equipment + Open Platform + Open Data + Open Application 
Hikvision offers comprehensive open capabilities spanning equipment, platforms, data, and applications to 
industry application developers in all aspects. 
Hikvision intelligent application open platform provides four development frameworks, more than 1,500 open 
interfaces, more than 1,100 common components, and totally 278 software platform products including basic 
software, general software, and industry software. 
Our integrated operation and maintenance service platform offers equipment probes for the access of third -
party sensing devices, operation and maintenance data interfaces for data output and report output of operation and 
maintenance data; and the partner operation and maintenance team management and cascading assessment function 
for various teams to deliver operation and maintenance services based on the same platform. 
Hikvision’s IoT-information integrated data resource platform supports the access of third -party data storage 
management systems or data formats in addition to mainstream data access; the IoT data management tools provided 
is capable of managing elements of various types of IoT devices from m ultiple vendors while evaluating location 
deployment; and data service interfaces support the development of business applications. 
Hikvision provides more than 90 related standards and specifications including overall technical specifications, 
general tec hnical specifications, software interface specifications, IoT perception technical specifications, 
intelligent algorithm technical specifications, big data management and service specifications, technical 
management specifications, etc., to ensure the seam less integration between ecological partners’ technical 
achievements and Hikvision’s software and hardware products. 
2.6.2 Empowerment System: System Operation and Maintenance +Algorithm Training + Data Engineering 
+ Application Development 
To support more partners to deliver application values for users based on Hikvision’s open system, Hikvision, 
based in Hangzhou has established a training and certification system, three software R&D centers in the northeast, 
northwest and southwest, the offline training  empowerment mechanism of 19 provincial -level software R&D 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
29 
departments, as well as an online training mechanism offering over 330 courses. 
The training empowerment system, oriented to system operation and maintenance, algorithm training, data 
engineering and application development, issues certifications of associates, professionals and experts based on the 
Hikvision training and certification system and the training content and evaluation system. 
 
3. Software and Hardware Products 
3.1 Hardware Product Family: Edge Node Comprehensive Perception + Edge Domain Scenario Intelligence+ 
Central Intelligent Storage and Computing 
Hikvision has been putting together years of expertise around intelligent sensing to further facilitate 
technological capabilities and enrich the branded hardware lineup. Currently the hardware family is flourishing in 
edge nodes, edge domain, and cloud-center devices. 
3.1.1 Edge nodes: Comprehensive Intelligent Perception and Enriched Product Mix  
1) Front-end Cameras 
With the rise of digital transformation and expansion of real-world scenarios, Hikvision is adhering to a “full 
field perception and intelligent integration” strategy based on its firm grasp of both the software and the hardware. 
All developments are based on real world demand s, with five excellences, namely ultra -HDand full -color, 
panoramic details, multi-dimensional perception, scenario-based customization，universal intelligence. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
30 
  
Ultra-HD and full-color: Gorgeous Imaging All-time and All-weather  
Hikvision has been pushing  the boundaries of digital imaging technbologies, particularly for scenarios with 
DarkfighterX and ColorVu, where color representation can be challenging. As of now, there are multiple series of 
Ultra-HD ColorVu products to address the issue at its root.  
Hikvision cameras are enhanced with multispectral fusion technology, which works on both visible light and 
infrared to compensate the loss of color during nighttime. The AI -ISP image processing engine is introduced to 
reduce noise in night shots. To compensate for low ambient lighting while minimizing the visual impact on drivers 
and pedestrians at night, Hikvision has developed a patented real-time supplementary lighting matrix system, which 
is capable of zoned lighting, enhancing only portions of the pict ure that needs more light. The traced focusing 
technology excels in capturing multiple moving targets in varied speed in the same frame at night, dynamically 
combining multiple capturing parameters to make sure every target is clearly visible and in focus. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
31 
 
Panoramic Details: Everything Clearly in View 
Hikvision solutions are known for impeccable details across the panorama, thanks to its comprehensiveness of 
static and dynamic imaging, and multi-camera videoing.  
The 4th generation of PanoVu camera is designed with harsh weather in mind. The top of the device is sheltered 
with eaves and gutter to avoid flooding. The camera unit itself is fully enclosed, with self -heated glass and 7/24 
working dehumidifier to avoid lens fo gging. The enclosure itself is made with sapphire crystal to avoid wear and 
tear by grains of sand. Images captured by different lens inside the camera are stitched into a full panoramic view, 
with trimmed edges and warp correction to represent the actual scene as it is. 
 
Multi-Dimensional Perception: Profile the Targets 
Building upon visual perception, Hikvision is integrating multi-dimensional perceptive data through expending 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
32 
into sound wave, radar, and other IoT technologies, in order to achieve spatial-temporal correlation, IoT perception, 
information fusion, and build a solid Data-AI Fusion Base.   
In industry inspection and smart manufacturing, visual capturing alone is only capable of basic environment 
monitoring, as it only “sees” how every machine  appears to be operating. With the addition of industrial grade 
microphones and bone -conduction audiology, the collection of precise audio data is possible. Given integrated 
encoders, voiceprint matching algorithm, and AI Open Platform, it takes merely one hour of training data collected 
in a normal working environment to generate an automated AI model that detects malfunctions. Therefore, by 
combining the audio with video, visualized inspection could be realized, so we can accelerate the digital 
transformation of manufacturing. 
 
Scenario-Based Customization: Designed for Practical Scenario Application  
Hikvision merge engineering thinking with technology, anddevelop cameras based on different scenarios, built 
for real-life usage, with optimized structure, imagine, intelligence, maintenance, and security.  
One example is specialized cameras to detect act of high-rise littering, an event of danger. These cameras are 
installed facing the sky. Consequently, the cameras have the dust accumulating on the lens. Hikvision optimized the 
system with a self-cleaning module, which collects water, and cleans the lens unit with a sprinkle/brush combination. 
A shade is added to minimize over -exposure in daylight, and there ’s a heating unit thaws the lens in cold days t o 
minimize human intervention.  

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
33 
 
Another example is elevator surveillance. Electronic mopeds are forbidden in most high-rise buildings because 
its unstable battery may cause fire, hence there is a need to monitor if the electronic moped goes into elevators, and 
trigger the alarm. Hikvision ’s AI algorithm can also identifies electronic moped from regular bikes and strollers. 
ToF detection is introduced in case of blocked vision. If the security camera is blocked, the elevator itself will be 
locked up to avoid risky entry. The camera also is aware of the floor it’s currently on, and helps to locate the elevator 
in cases of emergency, which can secure the golden window for rescue.  
Universal Intelligence: Designed Scenario-Based Product Solution with Better Suitability 
Hikvision designs its hardware and algorithm for the specific needs of each scenario and industry, to ensure a 
smooth digital transformation.  
The restaurant industry needs to regularly examine kitchens for the proper dressing of staff, and this proc ess 
should be ideally human -free, for the efficiency of labor. Hikvision ’s solution is powered by an AI platform that 
specifically examines human objects for white gowns, white hats, and white face masks. Improper dressing, once 
identified, triggers the alarm, so that the kitchen is constantly monitored in real time. 
In scenarios such as waste incineration, metallurgy, and power generation, the temperature of burners is usually 
extremely high, which need to be carefully monitored. Hikvision developed specia lized cameras for such needs, 
protected with wind cooling and enhanced with telescope imaging, to capture real time images inside the burner. 
The camera also monitors blower nozzles and pipes, and trigger the alarm if the burner flame went out or if there is 
any leakage.. So that the operators are timely informed there be anything out of the ordinary within the burner.  

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
34 
 
Meteorological observation involves outdoor working. Hikvision sky imaging system captures the open sky in 
a 360° panorama, which expels birds with auditory alarms. Power source is a primary challenge of outdoor working. 
To address this issue, Hikvision equipped its products with low power 4G radio and solar panels to facilitate quick 
deployment in the field. Hikvision provide open visual sensing, smart computing, and software development kits to 
its partners via standard API. So that meteorological algorithms that can be quickly deployed on devices. 
2) Smart Traffic and Mobile Devices 
Smart Traffic: Hikvision traffic management products adhere to the objectives of “improving traffic order, 
alleviating traffic congestion, preventing traffic accidents, improving traffic safety, and facilitating transportation 
and travel”. All technological developments are based on actual needs, resulting i n products and solutions 
customized for actual scenarios. The eco -friendly series, which is being rapidly deployed across the country, has 
minimized light pollution. The radar -assisted series cameras is being adopted for multiple scenarios to promote 
industry upgrading and business innovation. The Radar-Assisted Road Pre-alarm Series product line provides 24/7 
roadways surveillance and accident alarm, with an emphasis in traffic regulation enforcement and rural surveillance 
in order to effectively reduce road safety risks. The Radar-Assisted Smart Monitoring Unit product line controls the 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
35 
fill-in lighting module in a smart way to enhancing ambient lighting only when needed, to improve energy efficiency 
and high precision detection. The Radar -Assisted Vehicle  Detector offers 24/7 precise, remote monitoring of 
roadways, together with proprietary smart signal systems and “weight balancing” adaptive algorithms, it constitutes 
a holistic self -contained signal control system that spans diagnostics, simulation, oper ation, evaluation and 
adjustment. With extensive research on the capabilities of radar systems, innovative application, combined with 
industrial synergy advantages, Hikvision is realizing business applications in many fields such as ultra -remote 
surveillance, radar imaging, and frequency measurement, formulating professional applications in digital traffic, 
ship inspection, vital examination, falling prevention, and etc., opening up new market segments.   
 
Stationary Traffic Systems:  Hikvision offers smart , automated stationary traffic solutions that cover 
entry/exit, parking lots, street parking, and charging piles to save man-power. The recently launched product series, 
such as “Guardian” series and “Roadside” series, has enriched the product matrix. Through construction of intensive 
system, capabilities in intelligence and informatization, we have continuously improved the competitiveness of the 
product system. By gathering experience of vertical scenarios and in -depth field research, we promoted the 
penetration of the vertical market. Through in -depth field research in urban parking management, the Company 
keep improving the urban parking efficiency and the parking experience of the citizens. 
Mobile Solutions: Hikvision has been constantly optimizing the imaging quality and smart features of mobile 
devices. The Company launched anti -vibration cameras, 5G recorders, and protable cameras, ideal for law 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
36 
enforcement and industry safety management. Pocketable AI -based recorders and helmet -mounted cameras 
augmented by the latest low -power technologies are widely used in railways, healthcare, financial, construction, 
and manufacturing sectors. The Company also launched handheld scanner PDA line that is primarily used for 
barcode and character scanning, which is helpful to open the data terminal market. 
3) Access Control and Intercom Systems 
With years of excellence in visible light, infrared, sound wave, multi -dimensional perception, audio & video 
interaction, and electromechanical control, Hikvision continues to refine its access control and intercom products. 
The Company improve the access control product series ’ competitiveness rely on MinMoe, which emphasis in 
human and objects management in different scenarios ;enrich multi -modal technologies and build an HEOP 
hardware ecosystem that required only minimum software development, offering well-rounded intelligent solution 
to the customer. On a hot streak of innovation and quick delivery, the Company has released a new integrated 
turnstile line to expand its share in the access control sector. The video intercom product line is constantly refined 
to be widely adapted for all industries. 
Hikvision access control, turnstile and intercom products combined with vertical applications, have formed a 
comprehensive, rapid-growing solution ecosystem covering access control and attendance, temperature screening, 
elevator control, financial checkout, inventory management, building intercom, industrial grade intercom, public 
address (PA) , professional audio, turnstile , and advertising signage. 
 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
37 
4) Alarm Systems 
Hikvision continues to serve clients with cloud -based alarm systems that benefit from its excellence in radio 
frequency, optical fiber sensing, detection optics, integrated perception, and intelligent analysis. The Company has 
released its 2nd generation wireless and hybrid intrusion alarm systems, which are especially well received both in 
china and overseas. For perimeter alarm field, the Company constantly extending its product line, and launched the 
next generation distributed vibrating optical fiber system, which helps to enrich the border/coast control application. 
For security radar field, the Company has developed a plethora of situational perceptional radar products based on 
demands from marine safety, railways, and fishery industries, such as land radar, shore-based water surface radar, 
laser radar, and LiDAR and Camera Integration System. 
 
3.1.2 Edge Domain Products: Extending Intelligent Business with In-depth Industrial Experience 
Hikvision edge domain products centered around industrial vertical applications, further deepened AI 
application, enhanced system/products opening. They are designed to empower customers with artificial 
intelligence and serve the digital and intelligent transformation process. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
38 
 
1) Integrated Devices for Intelligent Applications 
DeepinMind NVR, AI -Powered Core Product for Edge Domain Application: Hikvision’s DeepinMind 
series products flourished in 2021, covering both generic and industrial -specific scenarios with a comprehensive 
lineup. 
Hikvision is the first to propose the concept of “inclusive AI” for universal smart surveillance. Promoting the 
widely use of smart NVRs (network video recorders), the Company’s “AcuSense” series NVRs features HD 
recording, lightweight AI applications, multi-dimensional perception, and on-demand data aggregation, offering an 
upgrade option with remarkable price performance for small and medium enterprises, buildings, and communities. 
For industrial scenarios, Hikvision’s DeepinM ind products are augmented by cutting -edge, powerful AI 
processors with high hashrate that could run multiple algorithms in parallel. The Company is committed to building 
an ecosystem, where clients have access to the open platform to quickly train their o wn AI models with data 
collected in real -life fragmented scenarios. On the other hand, with HEOP, the hardware itself is built as a 
“container”, and can be quickly switched between proprietary or third-party algorithm and software, creating smart 
integrated devices with high flexibility. 
Fusion Storage, Only One-Step to Comprehensive Ddge Domain Solution. In normal circumstances, 80% 
of the collected data is video related data. As the amount of data grows exponentially, indexing and retrieving 
valuable information from data is becoming increasingly a challenge. Hikvision constantly integrates “smart fusion” 
storage with computing, storage, and smart analysis with cutting-edge technologies such as GPU&HDD hybrid hot 
swapping. Users are given the freedom of adjusting software plugins, which massively improve the video data post-
analysis ability, extending the storage cycle of key data and speeding up the access to key clips. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
39 
2) Conference Surfaces 
Conference Management Software: An Enriched Solution Matrix 
Hikvision conference surface products keeps upgrading. Take the latest smart conference management V2.0 
for example, it forms a lite smart conference solution by adopting the interactive display as the heart of the scenario, 
supported by other devices, such as  conference room digital signage for announcement, and HikMicro Thermal 
Presence Detector for attendance check. The result is a flexible solution that broadly covers the entire process of 
events, including: making appointments, administrational approval, multi-screen display of conference information, 
non-contact sign-in before the event; remote collaboration, wireless screen sharing, shared whiteboard writing, and 
multi-party conference call during the event; relocating conference room, generating meeting minutes, automated 
data analysis, centralized device/facility management, event process optimization, and intelligent resource 
allocation after the event. The software solution can be connected to smart campus and security guard platforms as 
a component, adding new ability to existing platforms in one-click. 
 
Conference Tablet Hardware: Taking over the Premium Market 
Hikvision D5D, one of the Company’s premium conference tablet, features a slick anodized body, ultra -
powerful processor, 8 GB of RAM and 64 GB of internal storage, AI -powered conference software, and cloud -

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
40 
based application marketplace. With 48 MP camera that automatically focuses on the speaker, automated directional 
audio capture with an 8 -Mic array, remote conference and collaboration is ma de an experience. Better still, a 
motorized cover automatically obstructs the camera when it’s not in use, further ensuring the privacy. 
 
3) Intelligent Video Transmission  
The transmission products is the key nodes and nexuses for Internet of Things. Hik vision designs its smart 
video feed delivery system based on the philosophy of “visualized topology, unified management, intelligent 
operation and maintenance”. A single hardware unit can handle up to 5,000 video channels. Based on intelligent 
video transm ission system, the Company has widely built network delivery solutions for many scenarios and 
industries. Port authorities benefit from connected areas and unified management offering by the system. Resident 
community managers are relieved by the integrati on of video surveillance and network management, where 
everything can be done in the same user interface, making the process intuitive and cost -effective. For enterprise 
campus operators, being able to quickly identify and resolve issues in the surveillanc e network really cuts down 
their cost and improve their efficiency. The Company is well aware of its excellence, and striving from good to 
better. In the future, the Company will keep expand its vertical applications to help the customer reach a smart way 
to operate and maintain the network. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
41 
 
3.1.3 Cloud Center Product: A Solid Ground with Steady Improvements in Storage and Computing 
Capabilities 
The age of big data has come, and it depends on IT infrastructure with outstanding performance and reliability. 
Hikvision has solid lineup of servers for general computing, big data, and artificial intelligence to address stable, 
reliable, safe and advanced needs. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
42 
1) General Computing Products 
With over a decade of experience, Hikvision generic server products covers single, double, and multiple 
processor setups, with different forms like workstations, tower servers, rack servers, and edge servers, with variety 
product series and powerful performance to keep the market well-served. 
Hikvision generic server products are compatible with domestic and international mainstream technologies. 
The product family is well segmented for the most competitive, addressing general needs of data centers and specific 
industrial scenarios, such as government, internet, energy, finance, and telecom verticals. All Hikvision clients have 
access to general computing infrastructure with outstanding performance, reliability, and security. 
2) Intelligent Computing Products  
Thanks to the Company’s accumulation of industries experience and ou tstanding technological abilities, 
Hikvision’s smart server business has been excelling in domains such as AI-IOT, big data and business intelligence, 
continuing to outperform competitors. 
 “Intelligent server” covers many forms, including all -in-one, hardware only, and algorithm software only, 
which satisfy different clients and sales model. All products are compatible with domestic and international 
mainstream CPU and GPU, backed by a prosperous ecosystem and robust supply chain. For centralized computing, 
the Company just released the next generation of GPU rack servers in 1/2/4 units, maximizing cost efficiency with 
tiered options. For edge computing, the Company offers servers that are heat/corrosion/dust proof and low energy 
consumption, adapted to various working environments. 
As a leader of algorithms, Hikvision has released over a hundred commercial algorithms with scientific rating 
standards. The Company is experienced in the development and sales of algorithms. Added self -learning ability 
make Hikvision algorithms especially adaptable, minimizing the workload of data collection and labeling. 
3) Universal Storage Products 
Hikvision constantly evolving universal storage line of products, which covers SAN, NAS and object -based 
storage. The storage products are designed in two different architecture: server & controller distributed deployed 
and all-in-one, with support from industry-leading technologies such as SDS3 and HCI4. They are already widely 
adopted in a plethora of sectors, including office automation, database hosting, manufacturing management, and 
data center infrastructure, regularly rated the very top brand in IDC network storage. 
                                                                 
3 SDS: Software Defined Storage. 
4 HCI: Hyper Converged Infrastructure. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
43 
4) Stream Storage 
Based on the raw data and multi-dimensional application, Hikvision has developed a streaming storage model 
for raw data. The model is non -file-based, hence free from data fragmentation and performance degradation after 
long period data overwriting. By optimizing data writing mode, the solution further boosts file server performance, 
while systematic, well-streamlined anti-virus measures keep data safe. In a decade since the initial launch, Hikvision 
storage products are adopted by public security, traffic and transportation, finance, education, real estate, petroleum 
industry and electricity sectors across over 100 countries and regions. 
Hikvision streaming storage products have to been ranked as the top 1 in global video storage brands selection 
by Omdia (previously IHS), propelled by sales far exceeding competitors. The Company is poised to strengthen its 
brand power of streaming storage and continue to lead the industry. 
5) Large Screen Displays 
Hikvision’s display products, powered by renowned video processing technology, image restoration 
technology, image augmentation technology, ultra-high-definition, and smart interaction technolog, is well received 
in sectors such as monitoring centers and command centers, cloud center and big data center.  
The Company continues to invest in Mini LED and energy efficient series products, improving heat 
management with innovations such as reversed positioning and common cathode technology, and expanding its 
presence to conference room. The current emphasis is on improved color consistency and higher resolution, which, 
coupled with convincing price performance, will  increase Hikvision’s leverage in the professional/commercial 
display market. 
3.2 Software Product Family: Software Platforms + Intelligent Algorithms + Data Models + Business Services 
Hikvision’s software product family is composed of software platforms, intelligent algorithms, data modeling 
and business services. 
3.2.1 Software Platforms: Basic Platforms + General Platforms + Industry-specific Platforms 
Basic software platforms: In 2021, the ecosystem of “two pools, three databases, seven platforms and on e 
environment” was continuously enriched and improved. “Two pools” refer to computing storage resource pool and 
data resource pool for edge cloud and central cloud computing platform, cloud storage platform, and big data 
fundamental platform; “three databases” refer to component database, algorithm database, and model repository, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
44 
respectively supporting the management and reuse of components, algorithms and models; “seven platforms” refer 
to the resource management scheduling platform, intelligent perceptio n networking platform, AI open platform, 
perception fusion empowering platform, iDatafusion platform, intelligent application open platform, and integrated 
operation and maintenance service platform, providing intelligent application scenarios with storage and computing 
resource scheduling and equipment network access, intelligent algorithm training, intelligent service publishing, 
data aggregation management, intelligent application development, and integrated operation and maintenance 
service capabilities; “one environment” refers to the four -dimensional space operation environment, that is, the 
virtual space-time operation environment instead of the physical world, supporting the storage, correlation and 
analysis of perception resources and data resources  in the same space -time environment. The ecosystem also 
formerly featured “one screen,” referring to the large-screen visual application development tools, “one screen” is 
integrated with “one environment,” which supported the configuration of visual appli cations and the association 
with data without coding, realizing the visualization of data in the same space -time environment from multiple 
angles. 
General software platforms: Provides general software functions across industries, including general security 
and protection, visual command, alarm management, inspection supervision, conference interaction, and content 
release. The general software platform of visual command, as an example, includes AR scene tag platform, AR 
virtualization platform, AR command p latform, VR panoramic application platform, integrated communication 
application platform, and portable law enforcement integrated management platform. 
Industry-specific software platforms: Hikvision, serving over 70 sub -industries, has gradually built mor e 
than 200 application software platforms for various industries. Taking the traffic police industry as an example, we 
provide platforms such as the traffic violation management platform, the comprehensive traffic management and 
control platform, the urban traffic situation analysis and judgment platform, the traffic accident investigation and 
judgment platform, the law enforcement comprehensive management platform, the smart traffic signal control 
platform, the highway traffic safety monitoring and managem ent platform, the smart check station application 
platform, and the intelligent driving management video inspection platform. 
3.2.2 Intelligent Algorithms: General Algorithms + Industry-Specific Algorithms 
Offering services to all walks of life, Hikvision has accumulated a large number of video artificial intelligence 
analysis algorithms which can be divided into general algorithms and industry-specific algorithms. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
45 
General Algorithms: Algorithms that can be used for the development of intelligent applications in multiple 
industries. For example, algorithms to detect and classify transportation equipment, motor vehicles and non-motor 
vehicles, and algorithms to detect traffic flow of people and vehicles, etc. 
Industry-Specific Algorithms: Algorithms developed for industry-specific application demands. For 
example, algorithms for the detection of exposed garbage, bagged garbage, misplacement of kitchen trash bins, 
road messiness, road ponding, road damages, road leftovers, abnormal sidewalk piles, anti-collision bucket 
damage, transformer box abnormalities, non-decorative tree hangings, billboard damage, tree protection facility 
damage, incineration of garbage leaves, illegal parking of non-motor vehicles, and messy materials on 
construction sites, etc. 
3.2.3 Data Model: Industry Business Data Model 
Hikvision provides big data application services for all walks of life based on the big data collection, 
management, analysis and service capabilities provided by the iDatafusion platform. In this process, we have 
accumulated a batch of industry business data models, which can be managed by the model repository, and can be 
replicated and optimized in other similar application scenarios. 
Taking transportation as an example, we provide an illegal parking remediation model, urban road traffic 
operation evaluation and diagnosis model, urban road traffic tracing analysis model, urban road traffic short-term 
prediction model, high-precision real-time online traffic flow simulation model, changeable lane feature research 
and judgment and control model, tidal lane feature research and judgment and control model, public transportation 
priority signal control model, time-space analysis and judgment model for fake-licensed vehicles, racketeering car 
analysis model, traffic accident address analysis model based on standard semantic analysis, public transportation 
OD5 passenger flow analysis model, highway truck detour analysis model, driving behavior habit label and 
comprehensive scoring model, driving behavior safety risk management and control model, and risky section 
mining model based on active safety data. 
3.2.4 Business Services: System Operation and Maintenance + Data Engineering + Business Operations 
Hikvision, concerned with users’ application demands, explores the transformation from being a product and 
system supplier to being a service provider for certain businesses. 
                                                                 
5 OD: O stands for Origin, which refers to the departure location, and D stands for Destination, which refers to the end of the 
journey. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
46 
System Operation and Maintenance Services: Hikvision provides system operation and maintenance 
services to certain industry users. For systems and equipment out of warranty, the operation and maintenance team 
will offer professional system operation and maintenance services. 
Data Engineering Services: Hikvision delivers data engineering services for IoT resource management, and 
integration of data collection, management and services. 
Business Operations Services: Hikvision offers over 10 business operation services based on the Internet 
operation platform and its private deployment methods. Among them, urban parking operation services have been 
adopted in more than 200 cities, and its coverage scope is expanding rapidly; business operation platforms for fire 
protection operation, security check operation, community operation services, and waste classification intelligent 
management cloud have also been put into use. 
4. Business Organizations 
With the evolution of core capabilities and business scope, the business organization model of Hikvision is 
being constantly upgraded. In the new era of AIoT, Hikvision’s domestic business is built in layers, with the three 
business groups progressing their businesses based on the demands of different industries, while its international 
business is tailored to different countries, with its business and technology systems iterated and elevated according 
to the characteristics of the international market. Targeting different business models, the Company explores market 
demands, coordinates internal resources and strengthens its capabilities, as a way to facilitate digital transformation 
for customers and users at all levels inclu ding countries, cities, industries, enterprises and public institutions, and 
SMEs.    
4.1 Public Business Group (PBG):  Enhance Product and System Capabilities to Boost the Digital 
Transformation of Industries and Cities 
4.1.1 Overview 
As 2021 kicked off the implementation of China’s 14th Five-Year Plan, the digital reform led by the government 
showed a trend towards intensive and scientific construction featuring “construction of perception technologies in 
a systematic way, unified management by one network, unified operation and maintenance, empowerment through 
big data and AI, and promoting construction through application”. Combining its continuous innovation in such 
technology fields as IoT perception, AI and big data and years of in -depth understanding of the industrial users’ 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
47 
demands in public services, and centering around “AI universal empowerment and deepening of data value”, 
Hikvision has constantly expanded its product portfolio in terms of “hardware, platforms, algorithms, models and 
services” and deeply integrated product and system capabilities with a focus on the value fulfillment of solutions. 
Ultimately, it serves to facilitate the digital transformation of public services and cities through the comprehensive 
expansion of intelligent businesse s in public security, transportation, urban governance, services concerning 
people’s livelihood, ecological and environmental protection, etc.   
4.1.2 Core Technologies: Enhance Big Data-AI Fusion Base Capabilities, Enrich Industry Service Items and 
Strengthen Systems Engineering Capability 
Closely following the demands of customers and users in public services, Hikvision continues to expand its 
product lineup across industries, enhance the capabilities of the “Perception Base, Intelligence Base and Data Base”, 
enrich industry service items, and strengthen systems engineering capability, thereby contributing to the digital 
transformation of industries and cities.   
 
 (1) Continue to expand industrial products and enrich application scenarios 
Utilizing its solid technological foundation and first -mover advantage in AIoT and big data, Hikvision digs 
deep and taps industrial demands, continuously enhances fundamental support capabilities such as the Perception 
Base, Intelligence Base and Data Bas e, and enriches intelligent applications in smart cities, public security, 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
48 
intelligent transportation, ecological and environmental protection and other industries.   
The Perception Base: Hikvision continues to focus on electromagnetic spectrum perception technology, 
extending its AIoT products from visible light to infrared rays, X -rays, millimeter wave and other multispectral 
technologies, from video surveillance to multi-dimensional perception, and from the traditional perception of people 
and vehicles to the perception of all elements. We have incubated a number of new industrial blockbuster products, 
such as the Dual -Lens Bullet Camera, the Hyperspectral Multi -Parameter Water Quality Monitor, the Radar-
Assisted Camera and the Intelligent Security Inspection System, enabling all industries to quickly build visualized, 
intelligent and three-dimensional perception capabilities.  
The Intelligence Base and Data Base: Drawing on its technological innovation in artificial intelligence and 
big data, Hikvision pr ovides customers and users with a rich variety of hardware products, software platforms, 
intelligent algorithms and data models. Hikvision’s Big Data -AI Fusion Software Family is growing day by day 
with basic software such as the “two pools, three databases, seven platforms, one screen, and one environment” and 
more than 70 pieces of general software in 10 categories such as visualized command and alarm management. The 
Perception Fusion Empowering Platform, for example, empowers users of various segments of  public services 
through such capabilities as the co -construction of locations, resource sharing, algorithm co -management, 
computing power integration, capacity sharing and event co -governance etc., and is widely used in urban 
governance, environmental protection and other scenarios. In addition, hundreds of intelligent algorithms and data 
models that fit industrial businesses have been created, covering most business scenarios in public services.    
Based on the three bases, Hikvision fully opens its Big D ata-AI Fusion capabilities covering equipment, 
platforms, data and applications to gradually create a Big Data -AI Fusion business ecosystem, work with partners 
to build an industrial innovation consortium, and keep exploring the business segments of variou s industries with 
more than 120 pieces of software developed to meet the business demands of different industries, providing a wealth 
of scenario-based intelligent applications. In the edge node and edge domain, it deepens agile and highly intelligent 
applications with device coordination and interconnection; in the cloud center, intelligent applications such as the 
“be responsible for general sanitation, green covering and keeping good social order in a designated area outside 
the unit building” management system, intelligent monitoring of safety of small reservoirs, full-lifecycle supervision 
of solid waste, and intelligent monitoring of water quality are further improved for fields such as public security, 
social governance, transportation, epidemic prevention and control, conservation of natural resources and ecological 
protection, which has been implemented in hundreds of cities, hundreds of sub-industries and thousands of scenarios, 
contributing to Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, Hangzhou 2022 Asian Games , the 14 th National Games of China 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
49 
and other important events.          
 (2) Continue to enrich industrial service items and enhance user engagement 
Based on its deep industrial understanding and insights, Hikvision continues to enrich industrial service 
capabilities in data engineering, business operations and other areas, and enhance the engagement of industry users. 
Data engineering services:  Hikvision delivers data engineering services involving multi -dimensional 
perception data and business data for so me industrial users, including factor calibration, data exploration, data 
governance, data organization, BI visualization analysis and other services.    
Business operation services: Hikvision offers an increasingly broader scope of business operation serv ices 
based on the Internet operation platform, covering many fields such as integrated urban operation, video enabling 
platform operation, urban parking operation, fire protection operation, community security operation, security check 
operation, and intelligent management of waste classification etc.   
 (3) Steadily improved systems engineering capability to ensure closed-loop project management 
Hikvision continues to strengthen product and business integration, comprehensively improve system 
engineering analysis and design as well as implementation and delivery capabilities covering scientific deployment 
and management of perception devices, intelligent analysis and association of perception data, and the application 
of in-depth IoT-Information Network data integrated application, reinforce project management in complex system 
construction with stronger project management capability in the start -up, planning, execution, monitoring and 
closing stages, and collaborate with industrial customers to fill gaps an d provide users with closed -loop project 
management.   
4.1.3 Value Fulfillment 
While deepening its understanding of business in public security, transportation, urban governance, people’s 
livelihood, ecological and environmental protection and other fields , Hikvision strives to build the capabilities of 
the “Perception Base, Intelligence Base and Data Base” for cities with a focus on “perception, intelligence and data”, 
and continuously expand intelligent industrial services through the Perception Fusion Em powering Platform. By 
the end of 2021, it has provided a total of 346 system solutions in different business scenarios for government 
customers and users. 
Hikvision is committed to making cities smarter, society safer, transportation more convenient, gover nance 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
50 
more refined, services more targeted, and the ecology more livable. In the meantime, the Company will undertake 
its corporate responsibility and fulfill its social mission in primary -level governance, rural revitalization, and 
epidemic prevention and control etc., contributing to modern urban governance.     
 (1) Smarter Cities 
In the field of smart cities,  Hikvision aims to strengthen the city’s overall perception capability, optimize 
urban business processes and collaborative sharing capability, build decision-making support and early warning and 
prediction capabilities f or urban areas, and develop modern urban governance capability. Take “perception, 
intelligence and data” as the core, IoT, AI, big data and other technologies are used by Hikvision to  continuously 
upgrade the architecture of “cloud -edge fusion, IoT-information network fusion, big data -AI fusion” and expand 
the technology system comprised of “hardware, platforms, algorithms, models and services”. We have covered the 
smart city sector in operation and further mined its value, delivering support for smart cit y operation and 
management as well as cross-industry intelligent businesses in various fields.   
Focusing on the perception fusion empowering platform, we offer the total solutions of intelligent perception 
middle platform for the construction of smart cit ies. The platform provides unified video and IoT access and 
aggregation capabilities, establishes full -lifecycle archives, and helps urban managers gain insights into the 
construction, operation and use of urban perception resources. Through the intelligent arrangement and scheduling 
of various perception algorithms and cloud-edge computing power, the platform has doubled the effect of perception 
resources application. By means of perception openness, intelligent efficiency enhancement and data fusion, the 
platform quickly enables intelligent applications in various commissions, offices and bureaus, assists cities in 
building modern governance capability, and helps elevate refined urban management.      
The perception fusion empowering platform focuses on video value mining, and, with the idea of “one video 
with multiple algorithms and one event with multiple streams” in mind, provides capabilities such as the co -
construction of locations, video sharing, co -management of algorithms, capacity sharing, computin g power 
integration and co-governance of events, in order to meet the demand of intelligent video applications in multiple 
industries and departments. Over the past year, the perception fusion empowering platform has been successfully 
applied to nearly 100 projects in 72 cities in 19 provinces across China, covering various industries such as smart 
cities, smart water conservancy, smart environmental protection, emergency management, park management, public 
security and politics and law, etc.    
In the area of primary-level governance, Hikvision continues to penetrate into every segmentation scenario 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
51 
of towns and streets, collaborates with primary-level party organizations in towns and streets across the country to 
explore key areas such as integrated comman d, public management, safe construction, public services, Party 
construction, Party -government integration, regional development, and comprehensive law enforcement, and 
implement industry-specific applications at primary -level in public security, transport ation, urban management, 
emergency response, civil affairs and other industries. We have pioneered hundreds of applications, including the 
early warning, investigation and judgment of events, command and dispatch management,  living environment 
improvement, town and street fire control supervision, and elderly care services, which help effectively tackle the 
difficulties in traditional town and street primary-level management, primary-level law enforcement, primary-level 
services and inter-departmental coordination, forming a new proactive, forward-looking and preventive closed-loop 
of primary-level management that fully elevates the intelligent management of towns and streets.       
In terms of rural revitalization, the Company focuses on production, ecolog ical and daily life scenarios in 
rural areas. Through video, thermal imaging, AI, IoT and other technological means, we deliver the capabilities 
including construction of digital infrastructure and public support platforms to realize intelligent perception  of 
production monitoring, environmental anomalies, ecological risks, potential hazards in facilities and other elements. 
Focusing on rural governance, ecological monitoring, rural industries and other elements, Hikvision provides 
intelligent applications for industrial development, ecological supervision, primary -level governance, people’s 
livelihood services, etc. and creates a new primary-level management model featuring multi-dimensional perception, 
transparency and visibility, and primary -level co-governance, thereby facilitating the digital construction of rural 
areas.  
In epidemic prevention and control, Hikvision contributes to scientific and precise measures in cities. Based 
on the self -developed non -contact temperature screening technology and prod ucts, the Company has built  a 
Hikvision Infocloud TM—a cloud-based temperature measurement data platform for the cloud networking of such 
data with services covering various scenarios such as scenic spots, schools, hospitals, farmers’ markets and 
transportation hubs, ensuring the normalization of epidemic prevention and control as well as public travel safety. 
From temperature measurement, health code scanning and verification to data networking and big data tracing, 
Hikvision integrates innovative technolo gies such as multi -dimensional perception, AI and big data to make 
epidemiological surveys more efficient and accurate, assist the government to quickly cut off transmission routes, 
and effectively guarantee the work resumption and production for urban ent erprises. To help facilitate border 
epidemic prevention and control, Hikvision has built a three -dimensional, intelligent, integrated, practical and 
iterablesystem. Based on rich varieties of intelligent perception devices including visible light, thermal imaging, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
52 
radar, vibrating optical fibers, electronic fence, radio frequency identification. Combined with  complex border 
scenarios, the Company has been constantly refining and optimizing the adaptability of multi-perception devices to 
scenarios, the intelligent linkage of multi- perception devices, the unified access of multi-type devices, the intelligent 
analysis of multi-type algorithms, and the strategy optimization of multi-type early warning. The result is the omni-
directional intelligent perception, all-weather intelligent perception, intelligent recognition, intelligent tracking and 
early warning of cross-border targets, providing defense-related technologies to help crack down on cross -border 
smuggling and effectively prevent the spread of the epidemic across borders.        
 (2) Safer societies 
In public safety domain,  Hikvision combines the deep understanding of businesses with AIoT technology. 
Drawing on its accumulation of visible light technologies, the Company has taken a leap from DarkFighter to 
DarkFighterX and from black & white to ColorVu, delivering a high-definition intelligent view in all weathers and 
at every moment. Meanwhile, a series of new products which adapted to the “Peaceful China Initiative” have been 
created to realize the comprehensive perception of public safety elements through thermal imaging, sound wave, 
radar and other perception technologies.    
Based on the capabilities of its video image intelligent application system developed over the years, Hikvision 
not only provides security guarantee for cities, but also extends its business to the public security control and service 
of the countryside, railway lines, river basins and other scenarios.   
From the Skynet project to the Xueliang project, to today’s intelligent communities, primary-level governance, 
public security prevention and control, Hikvision has worked with ecological partners to transform public security 
management from post-accident tracking to in -process investigation and judgment combined with prediction and 
early warning in advance by utilizing “perception integration, computing  fusion, intelligence integration, data 
aggregation, application integration, and the combination of operation and maintenance”. Empowered by 
technology, the Company strives to help build a peaceful China by reducing burden and increasing efficiency for 
users at all levels.  
In terms of traffic safety, Hikvision provides intelligent detection capability for road traffic violations such 
as red -light running, wrong road side, overrun, overspeed, improper hanging of the number plate, deliberate 
shielding and defacement of the number plate, inconsistent driving model, disqualified driving, non-motor vehicle 
violation, pedestrian violation, dangerous driving, truck compartments carrying passengers, vehicle overload, truck 
turning right without stopping, etc., and  data applications for real -time traffic conflict warning, traffic accident 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
53 
portrait analysis, road network structural hazards analysis, analysis of dynamic conflict domain of road network, 
road network safety optimization, investigation and judgment on ve hicles with hidden dangers and overloaded 
vehicles bypassing, to help ensure a safe transportation environment. Among them, the new technologies for 
detecting truck compartments carrying passengers, vehicle overload, truck turning right without stopping and truck 
blind spot warning that were launched in 2021 provides help for the traffic control department to effectively manage 
risk factors in traffic accidents that occur frequently in recent years. The traffic accident portrait analysis uses 
automatic restoration technologies ranging from natural language to GIS 6 coordinates, enabling traffic control 
departments to conduct large-scale machine analysis of historical accident data and assisting in the investigation of 
high-frequency hidden danger points and a ccident root cause rules. Based on data provided by radar, video, laser 
and other trajectory recognition technologies, the dynamic conflict domain analysis of road network provides a 
powerful tool for traffic control departments to intelligently determine the accident-prone points in road confluence 
collision, rear-end collision and steering collision.      
Hikvision provides vehicle sensing technologies to ensure vehicle safety, generating collision warning, 
panoramic view, blind spot detection and other a pplications for buses, passenger vehicles, freight vehicles and 
online ride-hailing vehicles and serving hundreds of transportation enterprises.   
Hikvision delivers multi-dimensional perception capabilities to ensure road safety, providing perception, data 
analysis and warning for scenarios such as road event detection, safety warning of sharp road turns, road slope 
falling rock warning empowering most of the country’s road infrastructure construction with its solutions and 
capabilities to help reduce road safety risks.   
In emergency management,  Hikvision provides comprehensive capabilities to prevent and handle 
emergencies. To deal with the production safety risks of hazardous chemicals companies, fireworks and firecrackers 
businesses, non-coal mining enterprises, tailings ponds and all types of small and micro enterprises, the Company 
establishes a production safety monitoring and early warning system offering data access, data analysis, intelligent 
early warning, hierarchical push notifications, informat ion backup for reference and other applications that 
effectively address the supervision pain points of users. Hikvision’s solutions for forest fires, floods, geological 
disasters and other natural disasters feature functions such as comprehensive monitori ng of all elements, disaster 
early warning, comprehensive risk assessment, analysis, consultation, investigation and judgment of disaster 
progression, laying a solid foundation for disaster prevention and mitigation and establishing a sound system for 
                                                                 
6 GIS：Geographic Information System.  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
54 
natural disaster monitoring and early warning. For different kinds of sudden accidents and disasters, whole-process 
emergency command and dispatch capability is designed, including key applications such as on-duty management, 
emergency plans management, coordination and consultation, command and dispatch, summary and evaluation, to 
help users enhance emergency response and rescue capabilities, reduce disaster losses, and build a complete 
emergency command and rescue system.    
 (3) More convenient transportation 
As for traffic management, Hikvision provides intelligent signal control capabilities such as single-location 
adaptive control based on real -time traffic parameter perception, dynamic/static trunk green wave control and 
regional coordinated control, supp orting tidal lanes, variable lanes, roundabouts and bus priority control. The 
Company delivers professional smart travel service capabilities such as city-level traffic situation investigation and 
judgment, intersection problem diagnosis, traffic flow traceability, traffic simulation, intelligent guidance, vehicle 
traffic management, real -scene command, information analysis, investigation and judgment, intelligent service 
investigation and judgment, key vehicle traffic protection, green parking, etc., which  are combined with a “Big 
Data-AI Fusion Traffic Management Base” incorporating road network computing, data computing and model 
computing to achieve “smart traffic management”. After years of engagement in signal control, Hikvision shipped 
more than 8,900  units of signal controllers in 2021, firmly ranking in the forefront of the industry. Intersection 
problem diagnosis has been upgraded in 2021, extending from the previous single intersection signal configuration 
diagnosis to the more practical diagnosis of complex matters such as intersection and road section signal, 
organization and anomalous events. The “Big Data -AI Fusion Traffic Management Base” integrates basic 
capabilities such as perception access, data governance operation, model operation, road n etwork computing and 
thematic databases commonly used in intelligent traffic management. Thanks to its openness and professional 
performance, it arms customers and users with cost -effective solutions to jointly tackle traffic management 
challenges.    
In urban transportation, Hikvision fully combines the IoT perception technology with industry scenarios to 
deliver safe and efficient monitoring capabilities for highway maintenance, bridges, slopes, tunnels and other 
scenarios, as well as visualized industry supervision capabilities for engineering construction and industry 
management, serving thousands of industry users.   
With regard to port management, utilizing multi-dimensional perception and AI algorithms, Hikvision has 
developed scenario-based solutions such as standard management of work wear, dangerous operation management, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
55 
and early warning of port machines’ blind spot , which cover “people, vehicles, goods, machines and environment” 
and other elements, and serve nearly 100 port enterprises, ensuring port operation safety and improving management 
efficiency.   
In railway transportation and rail transit, Hikvision provides comprehensive monitoring and detection in 
scenarios such as railway stations and hubs, freight yards, power substations, train carriages and railway lines 
through multi-dimensional perception technology, serving 18 railway administration groups and hundreds of high-
speed railway station hubs across China. Hikvision’s technologies have been applied to public safety precautions, 
intelligent operation, intelligent maintenance, digital service and other scenarios in over 100 urban rail transit lines 
in the country, providing support and guarantee for the safe, efficient and smooth operation of urban rail transit and 
creating a better and more comfortable ride experience for citizens.    
As for airport travel,  Hikvision offers passengers conve nient and intelligent parking guidance, automatic 
parking, intelligent navigation display, paperless customs clearance, easy transfer guidance and other applications 
in nearly 100 airports, helping to build a safe, green and intelligent airport with humani stic care and cultural 
expression.   
 (4) More refined governance 
Hikvision is committed to building solutions for different industries in the field of city governance. In terms 
of municipal administration, the Company designs industry solutions for the intelligent management of municipal 
facilities, including monitoring capability for manhole covers, garbage cans, ancient and valuable trees, billboards 
and other facilities, and IoT perception capability for pipe network’s liquid level, water quality, water  flow and 
other data. A closed -loop process that integrates problem collection, dispatching and handling, and feedback and 
evaluation has been established to facilitate targeted municipal management services. For city appearance and 
environmental sanitation, Hikvision delivers industry solutions to waste sorting, including intelligent supervision 
applications throughout the whole process from sorted drop, sorted collection, sorted transportation to sorted 
disposal, which helps improve waste sorting operatio n and enhance the refined management capacity for city 
appearance and environmental sanitation. As for urban management,  the Company develops industry solutions 
oriented towards intelligent urban management, offering mobile intelligent collection, intellig ent inspections of 
violations, “be responsible for general sanitation, green covering and keeping good social order in a designated area 
outside the unit building” management system, urban flooding monitoring, command and dispatch management, 
the operation monitoring center and other applications, and building a five-in-one technology system incorporating 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
56 
perception, analysis, service, command and supervision to help create a clean, tidy and orderly urban environment.       
 (5) More targeted services 
Hikvision is dedicated to creating solutions for different industries in services concerning people’s livelihood. 
With regard to elderly care services by civil administration departments,  the Company creates systematic 
solutions for homes, communities and institutions, featuring applications such as elderly security, intelligent nursing, 
health monitoring and caring services, providing technology support for the safety of the elderly, intelligent and 
convenient means to ensure the smooth operation of nursing institutions for the aged, and service data support for 
civil administration departments. To improve primary-level services, the Company focuses on such scenarios as 
towns, streets, communities and villages, delivering various applications including primary-level workstations, 
comprehensive violation handling, home safety warning for the elderly, school gate security supervision, fire safety 
prevention and control and store information library to achieve closed -loop management from event gathering, 
distribution to handling, assist in collaborative intelligent business control for various commissions, offices and 
bureaus, and provide technological support for modernizing primary-level governance systems and capabilities.    
 (6) A more livable ecological environment  
With the help of video, radar-assisted technology, thermal imaging, hyperspectral, monitoring equipment, big 
data, AI, knowledge graphs and other multi-dimensional perception and intelligent analysis technologies, Hikvision 
strives to build an ecolog ical monitoring, management and service system for natural resources, forest and grass, 
water conservancy, ecological environment, meteorology and other businesses, so as to create a more livable 
ecological environment.   
To help protect land resources,  Hikvision sets up an intelligent management platform for nature reserves. 
Bi-spectrum thermal imaging, wildlife protection cameras, insect detection lamps and unmanned aerial vehicles are 
combined with animal identification, fireworks identification and other algorithms for such application as wildlife 
monitoring, forest and grass fire prevention, pest monitoring, ecological live streaming, human activity management 
and emergency command, to assist in natural ecological protection as well as science popularization and education. 
The forest fire monitoring and early warning platform is built to monitor forest fires and human activities through 
high-point bi -spectrum thermal imaging and low -point intelligent cameras, realizing fire monitoring and early 
warning, fire investigation and judgment, firefighting command, situation analysis, disaster damage assessment, fire 
supervision and other functions, and enhancing comprehensive forest fire prevention and control capabilities. An 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
57 
intelligent monitoring platform for natural resources is created to identify characteristic elements of suspected illegal 
activities through high-point intelligent cameras and AR cameras, which are then integrated with data on spatial 
geography and national land for analysis to implement  applications such as farmland protection, post -approval 
supervision of construction land and supervision of illegal mining at night, thereby effectively enhancing our 
capability to oversee natural resources. A cloud platform for geological disaster monito ring is built to combine 
sensor devices such as rainfall gauge, GNSS7 and soil moisture meter with intelligent video equipment to monitor 
rainfall, surface displacement, soil moisture content and other factors, realizing three -dimensional and visual 
monitoring of geological disasters such as landslides, collapses and debris flows, and providing intelligent assistance 
in geological disaster warning and relief.   
For the purpose of water conservancy and flood prevention, Hikvision provides an intelligent management 
platform for river and lake management and protection. Through video AI analysis, multi -spectrum visual 
perception, satellite remote sensing interpretation and other technologies, the platform can intelligently detect the 
disorder and chaos events o f rivers and lakes, such as illegal sand excavation, shoreline destruction and garbage 
stacking, so to help improve the long -term protection and dynamic control of rivers and lakes, revive the ecology 
of rivers and banks, and create a beautiful environment. An intelligent and comprehensive water safety management 
platform is set up to achieve such applications as safety monitoring of dams, embankments, and water gates and 
pumping stations, condition monitoring of electromechanical equipment and intelligent patrol through displacement 
meter, seepage and seepage pressure meter, video water level meter, thermal imaging, etc., and integrate information 
on work conditions and rain conditions with real-time panoramic AR images, so as to obtain real -time updates on 
safe project operation and protect water conservancy projects during floods. A command and scheduling platform 
for water disaster prevention is provided to integrate audio and video resources such as voice and video conference 
through the integrated communication gateway, offer GIS scheduling, conference scheduling, video scheduling and 
other functions, and realize “full access for one system, full connectivity of one network, full display on one screen”, 
ensuring vertical linkage and horizontal coordination of flood control command and scheduling. A soil and water 
conservation monitoring platform provides satellite remote sensing monitoring, unmanned aerial vehicles, video 
monitoring, sensors and other integrated monitoring capabilities for key monitoring scenarios of soil and water 
conservation, such as production and construction projects and check dams, to improve the ability to forecast and 
give early warning of soil erosion. Comprehensive monitoring and management schemes are formulated to protect 
                                                                 
7 GNSS: Global Navigation Satellite System, a system built by the European Space Agency.  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
58 
the safety of small reservoirs during floods.   
As for ecological protection , Hikvision provides an intelligent monitoring platform for the atmospheric 
environment, using LiDAR, hyperspectral Fourier transform, thermal imaging, video AI and other technologies to 
achieve intelligent applications such as prohibition of straw burning, VOCs 8  monitoring, particulate matter 
monitoring, exhaust gas monitoring and dust control. Through innovative technologies, the Company strives to 
protect the environment, support more real, accurate and comprehensive atmospheric environment monitoring, and 
enable efficient supervision, so as to help defend the blue sky. An intelligent monitoring platform for the water 
environment is created to monitor water quality factors such as chlorophyll, total nitrogen and total phosphorus in 
rivers and lakes in situ with the self -developed hyperspectral water quality monitor, providing water quality 
monitoring, trend analysis, water quality evaluation, pollution traceability and other intelligen t applications, so as 
to help users gain an understanding of the status and changing trend of water environment quality and provide 
support for rapidly treating water pollution. An intelligent whole -process supervision platform for solid waste is 
created to achieve the closed-loop management of solid waste throughout the process from generation, c ollection, 
storage, transfer disposal through such technologies as IoT, video AI and big data. Dynamic data collection and 
intelligent analysis and early warning are used to deliver intelligent applications such as “refined supervision, whole-
process supervision, risk supervision and law enforcement supervision” of solid waste, effectively curbing illegal 
dumping and preventing environmental risks.     
In meteorological operations, Hikvision works with the meteorological department to develop the weather 
modification prototype on Tianquan Mountain in Deqing County, achieving intelligent control of key places of 
weather modification and coordinated command between sup eriors and subordinates ，and improving safety 
supervision capability in weather modification operations. An intelligent meteorological observation and 
management platform is built for the intelligent observation of cloud cover, cloud shape, visibility, snow cover and 
other meteorological elements by means of video AI and multi -dimensional perception. AR panorama, radar -
assisted linkage and other new technologies are used to enable such applications as unattended observation stations, 
video review of weather phenomena and integrated display, generating more accurate and timely observation data 
and taking meteorological observation to the next level.     
The 14th Five-year Plan period has created a huge opportunity for rapid development of the digital economy, 
digital society and digital government. Together with multiple ecological partners, Hikvision will continue to 
                                                                 
8 VOCs: volatile organic compounds. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
59 
promote the upgrading and iteration of products, systems and services, facilitate digital governance of the 
government, and ensure social harmony and prosperity. 
4.2 Enterprise Business Group (EBG): deepen digital transformation and accelerate efforts to improve the 
innovation capacity of enterprises 
4.2.1 Overview  
The digital economy is playing a leading role in high-quality economic growth amid the prominent uncertainty 
in the macro environment. Revolution of new energy, new energy vehicles, new infrastructure and machines 
replacing humans, for instance, demonstrate strong vitality and immense potential as they guide this new wave of 
industrial digital transformation and continue to contribute to new growth in the digital industry. Digital 
technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (A I), big data and cloud computing have 
been integrated, applied and innovated by enterprises in managing their production and operation, assets and 
facilities, personnel organization and cost control, enabling various industries to increase efficiency, inno vate 
operation, optimize organization and control costs. Together with partners, Hikvision will continue to innovate 
around products, solutions and service systems. With abundant practical experience and keen industry insight, the 
Company is committed to m aking itself the preferred brand of intelligent scenarios IoT, a major supplier of 
equipment and facilities IoT, and a strategic partner for digital transformation.   
4.2.2 Core Technologies: build an AIoT product and solution system and implement digital applications 
Based on the unified software technology architecture, Hikvision builds its domain-end intelligent perception 
capability and creates intelligent scenarios IoT and equipment and facilities IOT by utilizing AIoT technologies, 
develops data aggregation, analysis and mining capabilities with IoT-information network fusion data, and pushes 
forward the closed-loop implementation of intelligent applications by drawing on its AI engineering capabilities. 
By building the Huipin Application Empowerment Platform for smart parks and providing the Hik-Cloud enterprise-
level SaaS service for chain users, the Company responds rapidly to user needs, supports the innovation of industrial 
applications and helps with the implementation of digital applications in n umerous industries.  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
60 
 
Hikvision will continue to refine digital enterprise solutions integrating enterprise informatization, equipment 
and facilities IoT and intelligent scenarios IoT, enhance industrial insight, and innovate applications for digital 
transformation in such fields as digital energy, intelligent manufacturing, intelligent buildings, education and 
teaching, financial services, digital countryside, intelligent medical services, intelligent communities, cultural 
tourism, intelligent construction sites, retail chains and intelligent logistics.    
(1) Constantly innovate AIoT products featuring comprehensive perception of elements 
Using its technological strengths in AIoT, Hikvision continues to innovate and strives to build a full -domain 
intelligent perception product system by expanding the perception boundary of the physical world through 
continuous breakthroughs in the multi-dimensional perception technology system.   
Diversified product forms enable devices to better fit into the deployment en vironment. For example, the 
micro-distance meter-reading camera is easy to deploy and install thanks to its compact design, and energy-efficient 
with a long battery life; the anti-corrosion cameras, featuring a special structural design for airtightness, are widely 
used for monitoring offshore wind turbines; HikMicro Thermal Presence Detector blends right into conference 
rooms and other business settings with its futuristic look.      
Challenging on -site environments demand higher levels of equipment perfor mance. For instance, high -
temperature highlighting cameras can be used for furnace observation and steel slag scraping to gain visibility into 
the operation process in harsh environments; the anti-fumigation camera can operate continuously in hazardous and 
high-risk environments such as a grain depot; in centralized control applications, professional low-latency cameras 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
61 
have reduced the end-to-end image delay to 70 milliseconds, and the response delay is almost imperceptible to the 
naked eye.   
Flexible applications focus more on device portability. For example, designed with low power consumption, 
the small AI badge can provide continuous audio and video recording for 11 hours, documenting the entire service 
process; the safety helmet with an anti-shake camera helps manage site construction by recording videos clearly and 
reliably, ensuring that the construction process is safe and controllable; explosion-proof PTZ cameras can be quickly 
and efficiently installed for temporary control and emergency management on the construction work site. 
With a vertical product system established across coal, electric power, communities, education and other 
industries, Hikvision hopes to work with partners in the future to create industry -specific products, expand 
the scope  of business application and facilitate the digital transformation of our users.  
 (2) Push the limits of AI engineering capabilities to accelerate business implementation  
Hikvision vigorously explores a common path for AI empowerment, improves the efficie ncy of ecological 
empowerment and assists in rapidly completing the business layout of partners. Meanwhile, the Company sharpens 
its industrial insight, deeply integrates intelligent applications with the business process, and helps users’ 
applications go online quickly, form a closed-loop system of intelligent application business and fulfill their value. 
To boost the efficiency of ecological empowerment, Hikvision has made its HCA -AIOPE (Hikvision Certified 
Associate-AI Open Platform Engineer) technology certification system available for ecological partners, enabling 
them to build an AI technology team and expand into more business fields together with the Company. 
Hikvision’s AI engineering continues to serve users in education, electric power, chemical engineering, 
agriculture, food and other industries. For example, in the energy industry, guided by the technology roadmap of 
the AI+ automatic control system, technologies such as automatic belt deviation correction and dynamic fan speed 
control have been successfully implemented; in real estate, the low-code AI+ engine can rapidly increase business 
efficiency, reduce labor cost in operation and maintenance, and assist in intelligent building inspection, etc., 
demonstrating its business value in providing convenience, improving efficiency and control processes; in logistics, 
the combination of AI and AGVs has further contributed to flexible robot dispatching, making it possible to adjust 
capacity at any time according to on-site status; in retail, AI+Hik-Cloud empowers enterprises to carry out intelligent 
remote store inspections and create a monitoring system for cleaner kitchens so as to manage closely with greater 
efficiency.       
In the past year, Hikvision has cooperated with more than 1,000 ecological partners and jointly developed more 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
62 
than 13,000 intelligent applications. We will work with partners to continue to advance the digitalization process 
for various industries.  
 (3) Achieve closed-loop business management through the Huipin Application Empowerment Platform 
Based on the unified software technology architecture and in accordance with the design concept of “intelligent 
applications by putting modules together”, Hikvision has learned from successful digitalization practices in various 
industries to build the Huipin Application Empowerment Platform, providing users with out -of-the-box modular 
component services and using low-code technology engines to facilitate rapid innovation of applications.   
Based on low code engines and the componentizatio n technology, the Huipin Application Empowerment 
Platform can be used to implement digital business applications quickly and conveniently. Take the inspection 
engine as an example. In 2021, it provided extensive services to thousands of users in energy, fi nance, 
manufacturing, construction, education and other industries, constructing applications such as property inspection, 
equipment inspection and production line inspection, and driving the implementation of value-creating businesses. 
Using IoT middle platform capabilities, the platform has realized comprehensive perception of elements in parks 
and enabled closed-loop management for production safety, park management, equipment and facilities, personnel 
management, emergency operation, auxiliary for centr alized control, data map walls, achieved digitalization 
empowerment across all business scenarios, and built an agile operation system for parks. So far, the Huipin 
Application Empowerment Platform has achieved the fully quantified implementation of applications for multiple 
users including Langjiu Group, Xi 'an Electronic Technology University and Guoneng Shouguang Power Plant.     
The Huipin Application Empowerment Platform can serve users from various industries such as enterprise 
parks, chemical industrial parks, campus scenic spots and industrial parks. Under the scenario of equipment and 
facilities management in enterprise parks, for example, low -code engine capabilities including processes, work 
orders and report forms are fused into equipment lifecyc le management covering spot inspection, repair, 
maintenance, scrap, spare parts and ledgers, enabling the equipment management department to effectively 
standardize business processes and improve the efficiency of equipment quality management. Under the sc enario 
of daily inspection of industrial parks, inspection engine is applied, where offline and online integration, AI-assisted 
automatic inspection and other methods are adopted to form a closed business loop from inspection plan execution 
to rectification and optimization, enabling the operation and maintenance department of the park to raise inspection 
quality and efficiency and guard against security risks. Under the scenario of directing operation of chemical 
industrial parks, a new UI is built for the digital world based on low-code engine capabilities, which has reshaped 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
63 
the interactive management experience by enriching it with multi-screen interaction, interaction between the virtual 
world and the real world, data analysis, remote command and other capabilities, thereby providing managers with 
a panoramic view of the overall situation as well as insight into the details.   
Addressing the challenges faced by parks with constantly updated technologies and ideas, the Huipin 
Application Empowerment Platform incorporates all kinds of new digital technologies to provide overall solutions 
for the construction of intelligent parks. As a firm believer in openness and integration, Hikvision cooperates closely 
with partners to jointly empower users to achieve digital transformation and continues to create value.   
 (4) Provide segmented scenario-based applications through the Hik-Cloud enterprise-level SaaS service 
Utilizing such technologies as AIoT, the mobile Internet and AI, Hik-Cloud focuses on intelligent store systems, 
intelligent community business, intelligent logistics services and digital management of schools with more 
segmented scenario-based applications, while continuing to expand business in new scenarios such as intelligent 
construction site management and intelligent agricultural IoT.   
For example, Hik-Cloud is combined with AI to provide closed -loop applications for intelligent cashier risk 
identification, traceability and statistics in chain stores, thereby increasing management efficiency. In K12 schools， 
Hik-Cloud bridges the communication gap between parents and school, through Education Digital Signage, a multi-
scenario interactive terminal, and helps build an intelligent campus. In residential real estate, Hik -Cloud serves to 
normalize community epidemic prevention by rapidly launching the “temperature measurement and health code 
checking for entrance control” program boasting digital traceability of “one person, individual temperature and 
individual code”, enabling communities to carry out epidemic prevention more efficiently. Hik-Cloud also continues 
to serve customers in logistics, construction, agriculture and other chain industries with a steady stream of digital 
solutions of connectivity, management, intelligence and insight. 
In 2021, the number of Hik -Cloud users and access devices continue to grow rapidly. Hik -Cloud has been 
applied to more than 40,000 offices, 280,000 retail stores and 600,000 logistics nodes, serving 4.16 million 
community home owners and 3.5 million parents of students, and accessed by 2.5 million devices. With a focus on 
various fields such as enterprise -level SaaS digital marketing and content operation, Hik -Cloud will continue to 
create new business value for industry users.   
4.2.3 Value Fullfillment 
Parks are cities in miniature, spaces for industrial development and key bases for digital transformation, which 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
64 
is why the digital operation of parks and the operation, maintenance and management of equipment and facilities 
have become focus areas in the digital  transformation of enterprises. Based on a value system centered on 
“shortening management distance, improving business efficiency, regulating operation behaviors and preventing 
safety risks” and a value delivery methodology covering “vision setting, value  matching and value fulfillment”, 
Hikvision has been exploring, practicing and summarizing its applications in various park -like settings such as 
enterprise parks, industrial parks, chemical industrial parks, business parks, campuses, hospitals, scenic spo ts and 
venues. The result is a digital approach for intelligent parks combining “a security closed loop from the entry and 
exit of people and vehicles to overall management, a logistics closed loop from service delivery to feedback on 
results, a safe produ ction closed loop from manpower, machine, material and environment to event handling, an 
equipment management closed loop from point inspection to work order management, and an auxiliary control 
closed loop from the command center to emergency response”, e mpowering more partners to forge the path to 
digital transformation. 
 
 (1) Create a security closed loop from the entry and exit of people and vehicles to tracking 
Hikvision is committed to building new digital intelligent parks, constantly expanding the security business 
boundary, extending the management scope from local management to global management, and transforming the 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
65 
management method from governance by people to digital governance. A security closed loop from the entry and 
exit of people and vehicles to tracking based on the comprehensive perception of personnel, vehicles, perimeter and 
other elements has been created and implemented for multiple users including Langjiu Group.  
In industrial parks, with people and vehicles as key management object ives, a park operation management 
system with a panoramic view and a controllable process is built to manage personnel, vehicles, visitors and others. 
Thanks to the B-visual Engine, a digital board is set up to display details of park operation in real time.     
In logistics parks, a multi -dimensional system for crime prevention and control centering around  people, 
vehicles, goods and warehouses is built in such scenarios as warehouses, freight yards, platforms and roads in the 
park. At the same time, it is connected to the scheduling system to realize the full control of vehicle entry and exit 
and intelligent guidance of platform scheduling, thus improving the utilization rate of platforms in the park by more 
than 50%.     
In chemical industrial parks, a park supervision system characterized by intelligent prevention and scientific 
control is built on “preve ntion, management and control” as its core focus. Digital applications such as the 
management of vehicles carrying hazardous chemicals and closed park management have been implemented to 
achieve whole-process control of vehicles carrying hazardous chemical s from booking, waiting for inspection, 
guiding them into storage, queuing and paying fees.   
In hospitals, an efficient, reliable, intelligent, visualized and multi -directional personnel management and 
control system is built for access control and intell igent security check.  The health code system, the hospital 
information system (HIS), inpatient management and other systems are interconnected to facilitate security check 
and identity verification, providing strong support for hospital security work.   
 (2) Create a logistics closed loop from service delivery to feedback on results 
Hikvision focuses on enterprise operations and services, providing green and efficient conference management, 
comfortable and convenient canteen management, safe and energy-saving dormitory management, easy and flexible 
information release, and smooth, high -end smart showrooms. A logistics closed loop from service delivery to 
feedback on results, which is established to improve operation and management efficiency and user experience, has 
already been put into practice by Xidian University and other users.   
In Campus, a smart campus security system integrating management, prevention and control has been created 
to achieve intelligent management of restaurants, dormitories, attendance, meetings, information announcement and 
other services, incorporating data from the campus information network to provide convenient and high -quality 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
66 
campus services for teachers and students.   
Aimed at improving the service level at venues, an intell igent large screen and a query and guidance system 
are built to broadcast event information repeatedly in rotation and perceive the information about the latest events 
in advance. At the same time, it is inter-connected with the ticketing system to guide the audience to quickly check 
seat information and the recommended routes through information release, thereby improving the service level.    
In enterprise parks, based on the dormitory management platform and smart locks, Hikvision provides 
dormitory supervisors and residents with information-based management capabilities, making room status visible 
and allowing for intelligent and convenient room allocation, quick and convenient asset repair reports, precise access 
control, accurate dormitory statistics, and meticulous expense settlement.   
An energy consumption management system featuring intelligent identification and active response is created 
to support device running detection, production energy efficiency analysis, energy waste supervision, energy 
consumption data display and other functions, so as to increase energy consumption management efficiency and 
continuously optimize energy performance. As show in our user cases, total energy consumption can be reduced by 
roughly 1% to 3%.   
 (3) Create a saf e production closed loop from manpower, machine, material and environment to event 
handling 
Based on the perception of elements in the production process, Hikvision establishes a safety management 
system to ensure safe and stable production. Utilizing the full-stack spectral perceptive technology and AI 
engineering capabilities, a management closed loop boasting real-time monitoring, intelligent identification, linkage 
disposal and event archiving is targeting on key production factors such as personnel, equipment and environment, 
so as to eliminate potential safety hazards in time and ensure normal and orderly production. This has been 
implemented by multiple users including Anshan Iron and Steel Group Corporation (Ansteel Group).  
In coal mining enterprises, with the goal of “identifying hidden dangers and creating closed loops” in mind, 
we build an “intelligent and complete visualized AI security control system” combining videos and AI to achieve 
closed-loop management (ranging from hazard identification to security control) of ten production factors including 
manpower, vehicles, materials and environments, offering underground miners a 24-hour “safety net”.   
Centering on construction work site safety, a safety control mechanism featuring “project -enterprise synergy 
and intensive supervision” is established at the site to provide intelligent monitoring of equipment running status, 
early warning of potential risks related to personnel and operation, and traceability of key construction processes. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
67 
Real-time on-site data are gathered to assist the refined management of projects and help enterprises with intensive 
management.   
In iron and steel enterprises, focusing on the goal of “intelligent manufacturing and intelligent safety 
management”, online diagnosis of thermal faults, online monitoring of running and leaking, online supervision of 
crane operation, belt abnormality detection and other functions have been realized in the material plant as well as 
sintering, coking, iron-making and steelmaking processes, as a way to lower the risk of production accidents and 
ensure stable operation.   
At gas stations, real-time intelligent analysis is conducted on personnel, vehicles and materials, and a safety 
operation control system is created to implement more than 20 intelligent applications such as oil unloading status 
identification, oil stabilization time detection, operator detection and safety precautions detection, thereby 
improving the efficiency of safety control and ensure the safe operation of gas stations.   
 (4) Create an equipment management closed loop from point inspection to work order management 
With a focus on the utilization efficiency of equipment and facilities, which are the core assets of enterprises, 
Hikvision facilitates the transformation of eq uipment and facilities management from general operation and 
maintenance to intelligent operation and maintenance through management and predictive maintenance, and creates 
an equipment management closed loop from point inspection to work order management.  This has been put into 
practice by Guoneng Shouguang Power Plant and other users.  
In power plants, the intelligent inspection robot, infrared temperature measurement and other intelligent 
perceptive terminals form a real -time perception network, contribu ting to closed-loop performance of inspection 
tasks from planning, execution, review to analysis in the operation and maintenance of key equipment assets such 
as coal handling equipment, steam engines and boilers, and resulting in a greater efficiency of e quipment 
management and defect management. 
In intelligent manufacturing bases, combined with the intelligent inspection, an equipment inspection report is 
generated with the equipment operating status information collected by the front -end perceptive devic e. An 
equipment management ledger is thus formed, and a full-cycle equipment management system covering installation, 
operation, maintenance and scrapping is created to assist decision -making concerning equipment operation and 
maintenance.   
In liquor-making enterprises, we focus on the status and hazard analysis of such core production equipment as 
packaging lines, boilers, water devices and desulfurizers and cover the entire lifecycle of equipment and facilities 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
68 
from pre-shift inspection, daily inspection , warranty servicing, routine maintenance to asset inventory, with the 
purpose of promoting equipment management execution, standardizing business processes and substantially raise 
the overall efficiency of equipment.   
In metal smelters, thermal -imaging cameras, orbit robots, environmental sensors and other devices can be 
connected through IoT gateways to realize online monitoring of equipment abnormalities, real -time warnings, 
maintenance task assignment and other functions, in hope of “putting safety fir st and increasing both quality and 
efficiency”.   
 (5) Create an auxiliary control closed loop from the command center to emergency response 
Hikvision helps enterprises build AIoT perceptive systems with enriching full -scale total data on all factors, 
effectively enhancing their ability to prevent and respond to emergencies. Real-time closed-loop business handling 
is achieved in such business areas as fire management, park inspection and situation analysis. Through free 
viewpoint, augmented reality (AR), data cockpit and other applications, an auxiliary control system featuring multi-
dimensional presentation and three -dimensional visualization has been created for closed -loop auxiliary control 
from the command center to emergency response, and implemented by Robam and other users. 
In iron and steel enterprises, a free viewpoint stitching together images taken by multiple cameras is 
constructed to panoramically monitor the process of iron and scrap conversion of converters in production settings, 
and the ladle  hook is displayed through picture -in-picture with a low -latency camera to remotely control crane 
operation and reduce the risk of personnel working on-site.   
In manufacturers, a digital AR workshop, the most intuitive way to present production status, is connected to 
an Manufacturing Execution System (MES) to obtain equipment and facilities information and material information, 
which is then integrated with an AR real map to build a digital twin of the production scene, thereby assisting in 
making management decisions and enhancing production efficiency through digital means.   
In pharmaceutical enterprises, centering on the concept of “multi -dimensional perception, data sharing and 
business linkage”, we build an agile operation command center, which uses big data technologies to mine the IoT 
perceptive data and present the overall situation of production parks and achieve visualized command and 
scheduling based on 3D maps and real-scene command applications.   
In hydroelectric power station, the communication platform and the business system are inter -connected and 
integrated to create a “agile, well -coordinated, orderly and unified” emergency command system, whi ch will 
provide dynamic risk monitoring and early warning based on the intelligent perception network and support decision 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
69 
making with data intelligence through data sharing and fusion.   
As digital transformation continues to bring new development and bus iness opportunities, Hikvision focuses 
on the continuous innovation of AIoT and relies on the capabilities of its products and solutions system to create an 
open, co-built and win-win ecosystem that empowers partners to grow together and facilitates digital transformation 
for users.   
4.3 SME Business Group (SMBG): Enhance the Digital Transformation Service Capability of the Whole 
Industry and Improve the Generic-Security Industrial Internet 
4.3.1 Overview 
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are an important part of the national economy. The interwoven 
pressures and forces of epidemic control, economic fluctuations, policy guidance and technological iteration are 
encouraging SMEs to seek change in adversity and accelerate digital transformation and u pgrading. As estimated 
by iResearch, the market size of digital upgrade services for SMEs will reach 330 billion RMB in 2022, with huge 
market potential. For SMEs, to engage in digital transformation is essentially to improve the efficiency of production 
and operation. SME users require generic -security IoT devices to connect various scenarios and lay a data 
foundation as well as timely and effective services that fit the business. Despite constantly emerging digital demands, 
the project contractors that provide products and services for SMEs are inefficient in reaching users and obtaining 
business opportunities, and the cost of project implementation, operation and maintenance, and management 
remains high. Therefore, the project contractors face an increasi ngly urgent demand to sharpen their digital 
marketing capability. As a result, the market is in need of an industrial platform with a wide -ranging influence to 
link the vast number of channels, project contractors and SMEs, enable digital marketing, and be tter meet the 
demands for digital transformation of customers and users.    
Working with general practitioners and drawing on technological elements such as big data and AIoT, 
Hikvision integrates industrial chain resources, empowers channel customers, pro ject contractors and ecological 
partners, offers standardized services, builds an open and interconnected generic -security industrial platform, and 
develops intelligent omni-scenario IoT solutions, all in hopes of driving digital transformation and upgradi ng for 
SMEs.   
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
70 
4.3.2 Core Technology: Mutual Promotion Between Online and Offline Channels Driven by Hikvision 
Interconnectivity and Hikvision SMBG E-commerce 
The product matrix of the generic-security industrial Internet  created by Hikvision is comprised of two 
mainline platforms: SMBG-SII HikLink and Hikvision SMBG E-commerce, which provide a channel digitalization 
platform, a project contractor workbench, an SME service platform and an open platform for ecological cooperation 
that serve channel customers, project contractors and SME users. Based on the infrastructure capacity of Hikvision 
and the marketing network of partners, an empowerment platform is built to adapt to the tra ditional industrial 
structure.  
 
 
SMBG-SII HikLink:  It creates a service platform for SME users, integrating the capabilities in device 
management, solution applications, cloud-edge fusion, content purchase guide, value -added services and etc. to 
provide one-stop scenario-specific solutions. The platform can access video, access control, intercom, fire protection, 
transmission and other major categories of products, including nearly 10,000 SKUs, linked to millions of equipment; 
the platform builds SaaS solution packages around communities, offices, stores, factory parks and other scenarios, 
and increases business value through subscription services; based on SMBG-SII HikLink, the Company has derived 
an open platform for ecological cooperation, drawing on the strength of ecological partners to achieve the expansion 
of solutions in vertical segments and horizontal business fields. The SMBG-SII HikLink Project Contractor Platform 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
71 
provides equipment management, project management, and tool & service capabilities to accumulate project data, 
improve the business efficiency of project contractors, and help them increase revenue in the long term.      
Hikvision SMBG E-commerce: It provides channel customers with a digital platform that empowers the vast 
number of security practitioners and integrates supply chain empowerment, marketing empowerment, tool provision 
and service operation to create a marketing service system, enable industrial chain digitalization, and move business 
online; the platform relies on digital marketing tools to enable employees and users to be online, accumulate and 
analyze business data assets, and support decisions with data.    
The SMBG-SII HikLink and Hikvision SMBG E -commerce platforms are mutually supportive and spirally 
driven to help channel customers excel in digital supply chain and di gital marketing and enable project contactors 
to efficiently manage equipment and projects, enhance professional capabilities and serve users efficiently, thereby 
creating one -stop preferred products and services defined by omni -channel, whole -process and omni-scenario 
offering for SMEs.  
4.3.3 Value Fulfillment 
 (1) Build a generic-security industrial platform    
Hikvision provides a working interface for project contractors and software and hardware service providers to 
assist in equipment management, eff iciency improvement, business operation and service professionalism 
enhancement, and combines its strengths with those of its partners and sharpens its competitive edge through 
ecological cooperation to better empower the industry. SMBG-SII HikLink has further expanded its client coverage, 
supports access and control of all kinds of intelligent devices with an open architecture, and enables out-of-the-box 
third-party business plug-ins in a component-based development mode, providing users with multi-scenario options 
and realizing data visualization and flexible use of multiple terminals. Hikvision continues to extend the product 
line, providing channel customers and SME users with one-stop procurement, embrace a wider range of professional 
generic-security channels for a two-wheel drive composed of high quality channels and high quality products, and 
establish localized channels to provide products and services with better qualities for localized markets. The 
Company works with channel customers to build a localized service ecosystem, provide inclusive AIOT capabilities 
and applications for SMEs, improve whole -process service before/during/after sales, and promote subscription -
based value-added services, thereby facilitating the implementation and service upgr ading of one-stop intelligent 
security.    
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
72 
 (2) Promote channel digitalization 
Hikvision’s channel digitalization for SMEs focuses on digital supply chain and digital marketing.   
In terms of digital supply chain, Hikvision opens up transaction links betwe en the Company ’s production, 
channel customers, contractors and SME users to integrate purchasing and marketing. At present, nearly ten beehive 
logistics centers have been built nationwide to move the whole process from order to delivery online, reduce cos t 
and prevent loss, release the energy of channel customers, and focus on improving marketing capability; fully online 
management of purchase, sale and inventory data is achieved to help increase the efficiency of inventory 
management; the intelligent goods sorting capacity is enhanced to ensure sorting efficiency during periods of tight 
supply; the intelligent prediction/channel business intelligent (BI) system is enhanced for greater prediction 
accuracy and a stronger approach to data management.      
In terms of digital marketing, Hikvision builds digital stores to enhance overall competitiveness and brand 
influence. The store image and system are upgraded with modular display and application scenario expansion to 
elevate in-store user experience, and an information-based system is introduced to manage information and store 
inspection tours, laying a foundation for digital operation. The Company has strengthened integrated marketing, 
successfully communicated the value of key products and programs, and sig nificantly increased omni -channel 
exposure; it has helped launching hundreds of online marketing events in epidemic -stricken areas, empowering 
more than 100,000 security professionals to improve their professional and marketing capabilities; it pushes forward 
the creation of digital marketing platforms, helps customers realize the digitalization of whole-chain, multi-channel 
marketing, and facilitates the digitalized management of business opportunities, customers and assets.      
Looking to the future, SMBG will continue to work with channel customers, project contractors and ecological 
partners to create a new vision of intelligent security, help enable the digital transformation of SME users, build the 
Internet of Things, and open up more possibilities.   
4.4 International Business: Continue to Build a Global Marketing Network and Optimize the Channel and 
Industry Layout Step by Step   
4.4.1 Overview 
Starting from its initial foreign trade model, Hikvision’s international business has gradually evolved to build 
regional centers for localized sales, and now it has established sales and service channels all over the world, and 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
73 
ushered in the stage of localized marketing based on the “one country, one strategy” tactic. By 2021, the Company 
has set up 66 branches in the international market as well as Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, providing localized 
services in more than 150 countries and regions. 
 
In the international market, Hikvision focuses on channel product sales while actively expanding into vertical 
markets, covering a wide range of industries including transportation, education, retail, logistics, health care, energy 
and manufacturing, to pr ovide customers and users with products and integrated solutions. In addition to 
continuously developing the video business, the Company offers non-video products with a rich set of features, such 
as access control, alarms, intercoms as well as security an d AIoT management software, to cater to different 
application scenarios. Meanwhile, AI-based applications and solutions are being applied in more and more countries 
and regions and continuing to deliver business value to users.     
In recent years, geopolitical issues and the global epidemic have brought many challenges and uncertainties to 
business development. Facing such complicated external environment, the Company focuses on meeting the 
demands of customers and users, designing and developing suitable products and solutions, strengthening the supply 
chain system, improving and optimizing internal operations, and ensuring the effective operation of local services 
and local businesses. Although some countries and regions are affected by force majeure, the international business 
as a whole is still progressing steadily.   

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
74 
4.4.2 Core Technologies: Lay a Sound and Solid Technological Foundation and Create a Targeted Research 
and Development System 
Hikvision perseveres in technological innovation and proceeds from industry needs to expand the Company’s 
technological boundaries. Based on the overall technological basis of the Company, a unique product and 
technology system in line with the international business strategy and market demand has been formed for the  
international business. The Company provides users with products and solutions suitable for different application 
scenarios with solid product capabilities, sophisticated AI algorithms, various multi -dimensional perspective 
technologies and diverse fusion applications.    
 (1) High-resolution image technology 
Products with a strong competitive edge are one of the most important factors for customers and users to choose 
a brand in the international market.  Hikvision integrates visible light, infrared and ot her image perceptive 
technologies to produce clear images and capture details throughout the day in all weather conditions. Using high-
performance sensors and ISP (Image Signal Processing) technologies, the Company continues to explore camera 
imaging technology at night and in complete darkness with no light, and has developed a series of devices that tailor 
to different scenarios and applications, such as“ColorVu ” camera series, and “DarkFighter X” series featuring bi-
spectrum imaging, which are very popular in the international market. In addition, 4K Ultra HD, multi-lens seamless 
image stitching, high magnification zoom lenses and other technologies enable users to broaden their horizons and 
achieve HD preview and playback.    
 (2) Extensive application of artificial intelligence 
The value of artificial intelligence (AI) as one of the basic technologies reshaping the security industry is 
increasingly recognized by industry users in the international market who have started to put it into extensive use. 
According to the application demands, development stages and policy differences concerning AI in different 
countries and regions, Hikvision has launched intelligent product series based on deep learning algorithms, such as 
DeepInview, DeepinMind and AcuSense. These products have been applied in the international market to help users 
discover new uses of AI in various scenarios such as target detection, target recognition, perimeter alarm, passenger 
flow statistical analysis, queuing detection, safety helmet d etection and license plate recognition etc., ensuring 
efficiency and safety for users while creating more business value.   
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
75 
 (3) Rich multi-dimensional perception 
Combining visual perception with the multi -dimensional perceptive technology, Hikvision is co nstantly 
expanding the scope of global perception through high -precision radar, audio, temperature measurement and etc, 
based on which the Company has launched the radar-assisted camera, the radar-assisted PTZ dome camera, visual 
intercoms, thermal imaging cameras and other products, combining multi-dimensional perception with traditional 
video to offer a more complete perception capability and provide users with a more comprehensive reference for 
decision-making. At the same time, the Company has further introduced access control, alarms, interactive screens 
and other product lines into the international market, released non-video systems including “MinMoe” smart access 
control and AX PRO, combining with video applications, to constantly enrich the application scenarios of physical 
security from various dimensions.      
 (4) Diverse integrated applications 
As the security industry continues to change and develop, the integration of different technologies and systems 
is being widely used to effectively address practical user problems. The Company integrates video applications and 
non-video applications, such as access control, alarms, fire prevention and emergency management, into a unified 
management platform, and has successively launched HikCentral series platform management software that meets 
the demands of different scenarios. Through diversified integrated applications, the Company fully satisfies the 
business needs of integrated security systems. In the meantime, Hikvision also provides multi -business system 
integrated solutions, integrating security systems with various enterprise information systems (such as human 
resources, finance, inventory, logistics systems, etc.) to break down information silos, strengthen collaboration 
between systems, and equip users with more comprehensive data and analysis to support decision-making.     
4.4.3 Value Fulfillment 
Oriented by user value, Hikvision has refined complete solutions that match different business needs and 
continues to provide in-depth localized services, striving to create value for customers and users.   
 (1) Enable SMEs to upgrade management 
With the progress of intelligent technologies, the demand of SMEs for security is no longer limited to video 
recording; instead, they are further pursuing more intelligent applications, images with higher quality, and remote 
access and management at anytime and anyw here. Hikvision has launched a series of solutions targeting SME 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
76 
scenarios, integrating advanced intelligent applications, the high -definition image technology, cloud management 
and rich product lines to ensure the safety of personnel and property, enhance the efficiency of business operations, 
and help SMEs to upgrade their security systems.   
 (2) Facilitate digital transformation of enterprises 
Driven by user value, Hikvision provides AIoT industrial solutions to automate enterprise workflows and 
procedures, and collaborates with ecological partners to create best practices for industrial digital transformation, 
boosting the development of energy, logistics, manufacturing, retail, education, health care and other industries. For 
example, in the logistics industry, we help users to ensure transportation safety, lower transport costs and improve 
transport efficiency and quality; in education, we help promote ubiquitous access to education through synchronous 
classroom teaching.   
 (3) Promote extensive ecological cooperation 
Together with ecological partners, Hikvision provides customers and users with more diversified products and 
solutions in the security industry and more cross -industry fields. The Company provides open capability for 
hardware devices based on the HEOP architecture to run algorithms of partner manufacturers, thereby meeting the 
practical needs of users in different scenarios and applications. At the same time, the Company opens its platform 
software integration capabilities to partners and collaborates with other application systems to enable users to 
manage more comprehensively and efficiently.   
 (4) Contribute to the harmonious development of society 
Hikvision is committed to making contributions to improving social security and the ecological environment 
through technological innovation and enhancing incident warning and safety protection capabilities. For example, 
safety risks in the production proce ss can be lowered through the application of safety helmet detection and 
personnel off -duty detection; based on the high -precision radar and video fusion technology, real -time road 
conditions can be predicted effectively to reduce traffic accidents. In add ition, the company implements 
environmental protection requirements in its daily operation and production, actively responds to the call for low -
carbon development, practices green manufacturing and fulfills corporate social responsibility.      
Hikvision continues to improve the global marketing service network and remains committed to more timely 
and efficiently response to customer and user needs. In addition to branches located globally, Hikvision has 
established research and development centers in Canada, the U.K. and other places to design and develop products 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
77 
and solutions tailored to local needs at a faster pace. The company has also built a number of overseas manufacturing 
bases and regional logistics centers, which cover trans-regional distribution while ensuring product delivery capacity. 
In addition, Hikvision has set up a number of call centers around the world and after -sales service outlets in more 
than 70 countries, providing customers and users with timely and excellent after-sales service.    
Hikvision will continue to intensively explore the international market, utilize cutting -edge perception 
technologies and intelligent applications to provide customers and users with high-quality products and solutions as 
well as exceptional localized se rvices, so as to better meet market demands and become a reliable technological 
partner for customers and users.   
5. Innovative Businesses 
Hikvision’s continuous efforts in technical reserves and expanding business scope provide a good basis for 
innovative business development. Currently, the innovative business camp includes EZVIZ Network, HikRobot, 
HikMicro, HikAuto, HikSemi, HikFire, Rayin and HikImaging. The solid development and growth of innovative 
business has continuously injected new impetus into the long-term stability and sustainable development of the 
Company. 
5.1 Innovative Business - EZVIZ Network 
EZVIZ Network is committed to becoming a reliable provider of smart home services and IoT Cloud Platform. 
For consumers in smart home scenarios, EZV IZ Network possesses whole-chain capabilities covering the design, 
R&D, productions, sales, operation and technical services of smart home products. Alongside with signature 
products including smart home cameras, smart home entry, smart control, and smart service robots, it also provides 
value-added services such as cloud storage, phone reminders, screen abnormal detection, intelligent recognition, 
and crying detection. For industrial consumers, EZVIZ Network offers open cloud platform services, including 
product intelligence solutions and software development technologies and tools. With such services, it assists 
traditional manufacturing clients with the intelligent upgrade of products, and help solution clients to develop 
solutions for complex scenarios. 
As of the end of December 2021, 159 million IoT devices were connected to the EZVIZ IoT Cloud Platform, 
with the number of connected video IoT devices remains the leading position in China. The number of users of the 
EZVIZ IoT Cloud Platform recorded over 90 million, including over 35 million monthly active users; EZVIZ 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
78 
Network Cloud Video application had more than 1.5 million average monthly paying users, and more than 200,000 
registered domestic and overseas industrial clients at EZVIZ IoT open platform. 
5.1.1 Core Technologies 
Adhering to independent technological innovation, EZVIZ Network independently owns core technologies and 
responds rapidly to user demands, having thus established a mature and proven technology R&D management 
system. A great deal of technology R&D has been undertaken surrounding cloud platform construction, visual and 
audio AI technology, and product intelligence. EZVIZ Network is among the first in China to develop a video IoT 
Cloud Platform – the EZVIZ IoT Cloud Platform – and to independently establish an infrastructure for the IoT era. 
Smart home products: EZVIZ Network works on the intelligent upgrade and transformation of all kinds of 
household equipment, focusing on integrating intelligent technology into products. In specific,  general-purpose 
intelligent technologies are centered on equipment’s universal capabilities, such as interconnectivity and 
interoperability, wireless communication and visual interaction, with the constant iteration of codec and 
transmission technology, w ireless communication technology, intelligent interconnection technology, 
comprehensive low -power technology, multi -dimensional perception technology, differential and modular IoT 
device upgrade technology, adaptive image delivery technology, multi -lens co mputing visual technology, fog 
computing application and other technologies; special -purpose intelligent technologies are developed around the 
four smart home product categories identified by the Company, including camera adaptation to home environment 
technology, smart lock structure and smart application technology, sensor-controlled equipment capacity expansion 
technology, and robot control and application technology, etc. 
IoT Cloud Platform: Oriented for cloud infrastructure, IoT access, operation & maintenance assurance, and 
service middle platform, EZVIZ Network independently develops cloud infrastructure technology, IoT access 
technology, multimedia technology, cloud security technology, cloud platform operation & maintenance assurance 
technology, application development technology, platform messaging technology and many other core technologies 
required for the construction of cloud platform. An IoT Cloud Platform featuring access of hundreds of millions of 
devices, all -time operation & maintenance, re al-time security protection, and high -bandwidth traffic has been 
constructed upon public cloud using the above technologies. Meanwhile, based on the AI computing framework of 
the cloud platform, the Company concentrates on the development of visual and aud io AI algorithms, and has 
acquired video codec optimization technology, video detection and classification technology, video recognition 
technology, audio processing technology, audio analysis technology and other core algorithm technologies, thereby 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
79 
developing the intelligent analysis capabilities of middle platform. Also, it owns holistic platform-based capabilities 
for various IoT devices, which range from access, encryption, forwarding, to storage and intelligent analysis, 
providing consumers with value-added services and industrial clients with open platform services. 
EZVIZ Network has produced a number of scientific research findings in the fields of cloud platform 
construction technology, visual and audio AI algorithm technology, and product intellige nce technology. The 
Company had more than 50 authorized invention patents by the end of December 2021. 
 
5.1.2 Major Products and Services 
For consumers, EZVIZ Network's smart home products and services, based on the long-standing expertise in 
visual and audio AI technology and product intelligence technology, focus on exploring visual interactions, resulting 
in four featured product lines of smart home cameras, smart home entry, smart control and smart service robots, as 
well as diverse ecosystem products such as smart water purifier, smart fresh air system, smart wristband, and smart 
pet feeder. On the basis of smart home products, EZVIZ Network provides consumers with cloud storage, phone 
reminders, voice assistants, screen abnormal detection, intelligent identification, key escrow and other value-added 
services tailored for home or home -like scenarios, thanks to its robust IoT Cloud Platform capabilities. With the 
above product and cloud services, EZVIZ Network now offers whole -house intelligence solutions  to users in 
household scenarios, covering home security, home access security, emotional care, comfortable environment, and 
interaction etc. Based on value-added services, EZVIZ Network has established an algorithm store for the flexible 
deployment of AI algorithms on smart home devices, allowing consumers to choose AI algorithms and develop 
customized solutions. 
Smart Home Cameras (SHC) : In 2021 EZVIZ Network continued to innovate on hardware and software, 
and launched a 2K smart home camera with hyper-comprehension capability that supports the algorithm store. 
Consumers may select AI algorithms in the store and dynamically load them via smart home products, meeting their 
own differentiated demands in smart home scenarios. The Company has leveraged  its powerful AI algorithm 
capabilities and EZVIZ IoT Cloud Platform’s global services to upgrade the cameras from “being able to see” to 
“being able to understand.” Through algorithm innovation, it has given birth to diversified services such as 
intelligent identification, irregularity detection, baby/pet care, and elderly care etc. Meanwhile, to meet users’ 
personalized demand, EZVIZ Network has launched C8PF dual -lens pan-tilt-zoom camera, BC2 battery-powered 
camera, BM1 baby camera, and C6WI 4K extra -high-definition camera, among others.
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
80 
 
Smart home entry: EZVIZ integrates emerging technologies into products such as smart door locks, smart 
visualized door viewer and smart visualized doorbells, to upgrade their technologies and functions. In April 2021, 
the Company released DL31FVS, the first face recognition smart lock with dual -lens 3D structured light 
technologies. It has been greatly improved in safety and environmental universality, and won the Outstanding 
Technological Innovation Award from Tech G. I n the same period, the DP2S smart door viewer was launched, 
featuring face recognition, water-proof, and large screen, the product is designed to meet the needs of users who 
pursue a premium lifestyle, and was honored the 2021Award for Recommended Product by Zol.com.cn. 
Smart control:  It mainly includes smart sensors, smart display, smart central control, and whole -house 
wireless coverage solutions for smart home scenarios. In particular, the whole -house wireless solutions, primarily 
composed of wireless AP and AC controllers, provide stable, high-speed and complete wireless network coverage 
both indoors and outdoors for smart home products and home users. The whole -house wireless coverage series 
products are the Company’s cornerstone in the field of smart h ome, as well as a new start for EZVIZ Network to 
establish presence in the wireless network products market. 
Smart service robots: EZVIZ Network has developed a robot product line to address the diversified demands 
of consumers in smart home scenarios, including smart companion robots and smart robot vacuums. In March 2021, 
EZVIZ Network launched RK2, an intelligent companion robots for kids that supports remote video control, 
intelligent voice chatting, two-way video calling and other functions. Equipped with intelligent applications such as 
face recognition, intelligent reminder, and picture book reading, the robot is able to think independently according 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
81 
to the results of face recognition, actively greet different family members and give tailored intelligent reminders. It 
can also interact with and follow users leveraging body recognition and visual tracking technologies. The robot 
vacuum RS1N released concurrently, featuring separated dToF9 LiDAR for accurate mapping and positioning, and 
offers multiple functions such as area division, no-cleaning area setting, smart path planning, automatic charging, 
and fixed-point cleaning. Moreover, the product is equipped with a ToF 3D imaging camera and a 720P HD camera, 
both on the course direction, to enable visualized housekeeping in addition to cleaning and sweeping. 
For industrial clients, EZVIZ Network is committed to providing product intelligence solutions and 
technologies and tools for application development. Based on EZVIZ IoT Cloud Platform’s holistic middle-platform 
service capabilities, it intends to increase the openness of cloud platform. For product -oriented clients in need of 
intelligent transformation, EZVIZ Network has launched an Open IoT Platform to provide solutions for product 
intelligence and cloud service application, which helps clients easily make their products networked, digital, and 
intelligent; for application -oriented clients’ demand for application development in complex scenarios, the 
Company has created an Open Software Platform, which provides clients with APIs, SDKs, SaaS components and 
SaaS boosters to develop SaaS-layer applications, thereby helping them to form tailored solutions under complex 
scenarios.  
 
                                                                 
9 dToF: direct Time of Fly. That is to measure the distance from the object by measuring the time it takes for the reflected light to 
return after emitting a short pulse of light.   

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
82 
According to the statistics by the iResearch mobile big data platform, amo ng all smart home applications the 
EZVIZ Cloud Video Application’s number of monthly active users ranks among the top two in the industry. 
iResearch’s data also shows, in 2020 the worldwide shipment of household cameras was 88.89 million, while 
EZVIZ Network's smart home camera shipment was approximately 12.79 million, accounting for approximately 
14.39% global market share, leading in the global market. Its smart door viewer has ranked top one in the brand 
ranking of Access Control/Door Viewer on 11.11 Global Shopping Festival, 618 Shopping Festival, and other online 
shopping festivals on Tmall for many consecutive years; smart door lock has also ranked among the top ten in the 
category of electronic door locks on November 11, June 18 and other online shopping festivals on Tmall for many 
times, and climbed to the top three at the June 18 shopping festival on Tmall in 2021. EZVIZ Network’s smart 
control, smart service robots and other innovative smart home products are also expanding their presence: its 
companion robot for kids ranked among the top ten of the children's robot category on Tmall at the June 18 shopping 
festival in 2021. 
In the sector of IoT Cloud Platform, as of the end of December 2021, 159 million IoT devices were connected 
to the EZVIZ IoT Cloud Platform, with the number of connected video IoT devices remains leading in China. 
5.1.3 Outlook 
EZVIZ Network adheres to the IoT Cloud Platform as its business foundation, and visual technology as its 
core feature. Dedicated to the smart home industry  and the IoT Cloud Platform industry, it aspires to become a 
reliable provider of smart home services and IoT Cloud Platform. 
With the wide application of the IoT, cloud services and AI technologies to smart home scenarios, the smart 
home industry is evolving from single smart products to an interconnected smart system, and is expected to upgrade 
to human-centered personalized services, driven by the extensive application of privacy computing architecture and 
AI algorithms. EZVIZ Network will insist on cont inuous investment in visual technology and cloud platform 
technology, and continue to strengthen its own visual and audio AI capabilities. It aims to bring greater application 
value to consumers and users through its core technical capabilities, by developing the video IoT into the visual IoT, 
transforming the 2D image processing capability into the spatial information processing capability, and upgrading 
from “able to see” to “able to understand” and from simple intelligence to advanced intelligence. 
5.2 Innovative Business - HikRobot 
Centered on technologies such as visual perception, AI and navigation control, relying on its solid algorithm 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
83 
accumulation, strong software and hardware development capabilities, and a complete marketing system, HikRobot 
focuses on intelligent manufacturing, and continuously invests in the fields of mobile robots and machine vision to 
promote the digitization and intelligence of production and logistics. 
5.2.1 Mobile Robots: Focus on Intralogistics and Promote Intelligent Logistics of Factories 
As a dedicated provider of mobile robot products and solutions, HikRobot continuously concentrates on 
breakthroughs and upgrades in products and technologies, in a bid to improve efficiency of the entire process from 
design and development to implementation and deployment, and create more value for users using technological 
innovation. In 2021 the company released its new-generation AMR (Automatic Mobile Robot) architecture platform 
– “Intelligent Base ” and new hardware products based on this platform. Meanwhile, as required by business 
development, product lines have been integrated into four new hardware products series, with the first generation 
of low-code application development platform unveiled. 
Four hardware product series 
LMR (Latent Mobile Robot) series: As HikRobot’s signature product series, LMR is the first to apply the 
modularization and componentization technologies of the new -generation “Intelligent Base ” to new product 
development, thus leading to higher safety standards and offering higher flexibility. With faster delivery and more 
convenient operation and maintenance methods, it can efficiently respond to complex and scenario -based 
requirements in reality. In 2021, HikRobot released the fourth -generation products Q7 an d Q3, with greatly 
improved intelligence features and enable easy deployment in more application scenarios. 
CMR/HMR (Conveyor/Heavy -duty Mobile Robot) series:  The CMR/HMR product line, focused on 
industrial applications, aims to develop differentiated products to meet the demands of cargo tranship, cargo delivery, 
heavy-duty handling, etc. In 2021, the series was further improved in performance, to meet the industry ’s general 
requirement for accuracy with a driving positioning accuracy of ±5mm and a docking  accuracy of ±2mm; and to 
meet safety requirements in the case of mixed traffic flows of people and vehicles with a 360 -degree safety 
protection scheme. HikRobot CMR/HMR product series is now widely used in the panel display and SMT 
production lines in the 3C industry, lithium battery and photovoltaic production lines in the new energy industry, as 
well as automaking, machinery manufacturing and other sectors. 
FMR (Forklift Mobile Robot) series:  Thanks to a new system architecture, FMR product series has be en 
improved in terms of storage capacity, efficiency, security, and scenario -based intelligent perception. HikRobot’s 
independently-developed 3D SLAM laser navigation algorithm has simplified implementation and improved the 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
84 
rapid deployment capability of p roducts without compromising positioning accuracy and reliability. Apart from 
conventional omni-directional, stacking and handling forklifts, in 2021 the Company extended to two sub-series – 
reach and counterbalance forklifts, with the maximum stacking height of over 5 meters. 
CTU (Cargo Transport Unit) series:  The entire CTU range has been upgraded based on a new structure, 
aiming for diversified types, maximum storage capacity and optimal efficiency. The new cargo transport unit applies 
to a wider range, available in three sub-series – small, medium and large; the actuator structure has been expanded 
from clamping to lifting; the weight of the product is reduced by more than 20%, and the single -machine 
productivity has greatly improved. The ST6 workstation independently developed by HikRobot features a floor area 
that is only 20% of that of some competing products, and the overall operating efficiency of its system is greatly 
boosted. 
Software product series 
The RCS (Robot Control System) independently developed by HikRobot features three systems – scheduling, 
simulation and digital twin through the construction and combination of varied components. It is designed to instruct 
more than 1,000 AMRs of different types and different navigation modes for collabor ative work, realizing swarm 
intelligence. The iWMS (intelligent Warehouse Management System), which is independently developed for 
warehousing, is deeply engaged in core fields such as data fusion, human-computer interaction, service orchestration, 
and algorithm services on the technology side, and adapts to the trends of industry -specific system and scenario-
based application on the service side. The purpose is to advance the intelligent logistics model of “goods to people” 
towards “multi-industry, all-scenario, and full coverage.” 
Solution development 
Automotive industry: The AMR solutions for the automotive industry include a variety of software access 
modes, multi -category AMR collaboration and scheduling, and multi -level caches, so as to adapt to differ ent 
material preparation models and determine different inbound and outbound strategies. Harnessing the underlying 
open architecture of software platforms, it enables the smooth connection of production data, helping customers to 
steadily achieve agile manufacturing and solidly promote lean management. 
3C industry:  HikRobot has developed and designed an array of AMR models, equipped with 
iWMS/RCS/WCS (Warehouse Control System), as well as hoists, automatic doors and other equipment. Now it has 
been applied to cell phone production, PCB processing and other typical whole-plant logistics scenarios in the 3C 
sector, covering all stages of intralogistics such as material warehousing, material delivery, production and handling, 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
85 
and finished product warehousing. It is expected to realize unmanned, automated and intelligent material handling 
throughout the plant. 
New energy industry: HikRobot boasts highly standardized solutions for the photovoltaic and lithium battery 
segments. In each key production stage, the com bination schemes of LMR+CMR+FMR can help businesses save 
labor costs and increase production capacity. 
 
The mobile robot market is expected to maintain a rapid growth, as the demand for transformation and 
upgrading continues in the conventional manufacturing industries, and the demand for automated logistics maintains 
at a high level. In 2022, HikRobot plans to introduce AI applications in AMR’s perception, planning, control, and 
collaboration, and leverage 3D vision and other perception technolo gies to enhance the autonomous capability of 
AMR, striving to expand application scenarios and market presence. To empower partners, HikRobot will build an 
industrial software platform in the field of AMR, so that partners will be able to more easily customize robots, more 
rapidly tailor systems, and better serve end users. 
5.2.2 Machine Vision: Focus on Industrial Perception and Drive Digital and Intelligent Production 
As the core of industrial perception, machine vision is the eyes of robots and automation equipment. It is a key 
technology for building the industrial Internet and the perception network for digital factories. It is also an integral 
part of flexible and intelligent production. In 2021, HikRobot continued to enrich and optimize machine vision  
products, and gradually extended from 2D vision to 3D vision, giving birth to three new product lines: 2D vision 
product line, intelligent ID product line and 3D vision product line. In the meantime, it tried to cultivate a vision 
application ecology centered on the Visual Master (VM) Algorithm Software Platform, and work with partners to 
meet the application demands of fragmented industrial scenarios. 
2D vision product line: HikRobot provides industrial customers with a holistic visual imaging and acquisition 
solution that is centered on industrial cameras, and supported by industrial lens, industrial light sources and 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
86 
industrial capture cards. In 2021, based on the new FPGA platform architecture, HikRobot continued with 
performance optimization and produc t expansion, and achieved comprehensive improvements in power 
consumption control, image quality and transmission stability, resulting in two complete product series – the new 
CS second-generation industrial camera and the CU universal camera. The CH high -speed and high -resolution 
camera series was expanded to better meet high-end applications; and the 8K and 16K CL line scan cameras were 
introduced, completing the CL line scan camera product layout from 2K to 16K. HikRobot has also developed a 25-
megapixel industrial lens series, which is adaptive to C-mount ultra HD image sensors. As for industrial light sources, 
it joined hands with partners to design and develop a new series, as part of HikRobot ’s light source product series 
with consistent product family design and higher quality. Capture cards supporting CoaXPress, Cameralink, Gigabit 
Ethernet, and USB3 interfaces have been developed; and FPGA processing, protocol optimization, driver layer 
optimization and other technologies were used to boost transmission stability, reduce packet loss rate, and ease the 
load on the post-processing end. 
Intelligent ID product line:  HikRobot provides the industry with an high -efficient and high -performance 
intelligent processing platform, centered on vision algorithms, a nd focusing on open algorithm platforms and 
general-purpose intelligent hardware products. In 2021, concerning vision algorithms, HikRobot thoroughly 
optimized the AI algorithms for industrial applications, developed AI detection algorithms, unsupervised d efect 
detection algorithms, and ultra -high-resolution image analysis algorithms based on small samples, and increased 
the application width and depth of vision algorithms. Concerning intelligent products, the open -architecture 
algorithm platform VM4.0 was released. It is open from underlying modules to solutions, supports two -way 
secondary development of algorithm layer and application layer, and adapts more efficiently and flexibly to highly 
differentiated industrial scenarios and rapidly changing applicat ion development. HikRobot unveiled the 20 -
megapixel deep learning enabled smart camera SC7000Pro, which supports AI applications of larger field of view 
and higher precision. Concerning ID products, a number of compact high-speed smart code readers of ID2000 and 
ID3000 series were unveiled to address difficulties in industrial applicationa such as ultra-small codes, problematic 
codes, high takt time and small space. HikRobot has also released a number of handheld code readers to meet the 
information collection needs in scenarios of logistics, intelligent manufacturing and others, which enriched methods 
of information collection. 
3D vision product line: HikRobot provides one-stop 3D vision application solutions for industrial customers, 
taking 3D sensing tech nology as the core and 3D software system as the platform. In 2021, HikRobot increased 
investment in the 3D technology, a key development direction of machine vision, and launched a variety of RGBD 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
87 
3D cameras. Meanwhile, focusing on the application of robo tic arms, the first 3D Random Picking Platform was 
released, together with a number of solutions such as single -piece separation and automated robotic conveyor 
tailored for the express delivery and logistics industry. HikRobot continued to optimize and enrich linear laser 3D 
measurement products, gradually building up a product lineup. With improved accuracy and environmental 
adaptability in 3D measurement and inspection applications, the products have been recognized by users in logistics, 
lithium battery, 3C and other industries. 
Ecosystem construction 
Based on hardware and software offerings, HikRobot endeavors to establish a new ecosystem of machine 
vision. At the beginning of 2021, HikRobot initiated the Ecosystem Partner Program. It includes free machine vision 
engineer training and certification nationwide – to explore and cultivate ecosystem partners – and engagement in 
machine vision application training, textbook compilation, skills competition etc. in colleges and universities – to 
support the fostering of intelligent manufacturing talent. As a result, a machine vision application ecosystem based 
on the VM Platform has been initially established. At the same time, HikRobot has formed up an ecosystem 
promotion team, which is dispatched to respective regions to better empower system integrators and equipment 
vendors. V Community, a vision technology forum also went live, serving as a professional technical exchange and 
communication platform for ecosystem partners. 
The machine vision industry is expect ed to maintain rapid growth, with the continuous transformation and 
upgrading of traditional industries, the rapid development of new energy, semiconductor and other industries, and 
the drive of AI, 3D and multispectral technologies. In 2022, driven by tec hnological innovation and guided by 
market demands, HikRobot will focus on the upgrading and iteration of products and platforms, and continue to 
provide customers with simpler and more open hardware and software products and systems. More resources will 
be invested to establish a new ecosystem of machine vision, serving partners at all levels of the industry chain and 
creating value together. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
88 
 
In the future, HikRobot will continue to focus on intelligent manufacturing. It will remain committed to the 
two business areas – mobile robots and machine vision, and improve quality & efficiency, downsize staffs and 
reduce costs for users through technological innovation of software and hardware products and platforms and 
continuous improvement of delivery processe s. HikRobot will facilitate the development of global intelligent 
manufacturing. 
5.3 Innovative Business – HikMicro 
Centered on infrared thermal imaging technology and with MEMS-based technology, HikMicro provides core 
devices, detectors, modules, infrared thermal imaging products and overall solutions to the world. It works hard to 
substantially reduce the cost of core components and expand application scenarios, promoting infrared thermal 
imaging products from a niche to the general public. 
5.3.1 Core Dev ices: Steady Upgrade of Technology and Process, Continued Increase in Mass Production 
Capacity 
In 2021, HikMicro continued to develop uncooled infrared focal plane detector technology, and tap into its 
five core technology fields – readout integrated circuit design, MEMS design, MEMS and encapsulation process 
development, high vacuum encapsulation, and industrialization capability. Through technology upgrade, it seeks to 
optimize product cost, improve product performance, and continuously enhance product co mpetitiveness. On the 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
89 
basis of the original 17um product platform, HikMicro has developed and completed the construction of a 12um 
product platform, further launched and mass -produced a full range of 12um detectors with area arrays. With a 
minimal resolution of 160*120 and a maximal resolution of 1280*1024, the series can meet the personalized needs 
of customers in varied scenarios. The full range of 12um detectors features superior performance, with NETD 10 
≤40mk. All arrays are available in advanced wafer-level packaging, which means smaller size and lower cost. Built-
in analog-digital converter modules are used to improve the anti -interference ability of detectors and simplify the 
circuit design of peripheral hardware, which facilitates subsequent application development. 
In 2021 HikMicro further improved its detector industrialization capacity, with its detector industrialization 
base in Tonglu, Hangzhou put into use. The new MEMS production line has also been activated, serving as a strong 
driving force for the popularization of thermal imaging. 
5.3.2 Product Solutions: Technology -based Performance Improvement, Demand -driven Iteration and 
Innovation 
Over years, HikMicro has established five advantages in finished products – clear image, smart algorithms, 
efficient temperature measurement, stable application and reliable manufacturing. The business has seen rapid 
growth, relying on its technical advantages in independently developed sensors and product design. In 2021, 
oriented for market demand, HikMicro con tinued to expand, optimize, and upgrade its three categories: generic -
security products, temperature measurement products, and commercial vision products. 
Generic-security products: In the segment of civilian security, commanding heights are a typical application 
scenario, where equipment usually undertakes security surveillance in large space, and is required to perform 
frequent cruise and focusing. Therefore, positioning accuracy becomes a key to application performance, and the 
error control of motors an d the service life of lens are also much concerned. To improve positioning accuracy, 
HikMicro has developed an attitude perception feature to accurately monitor the equipment attitude information in 
real time, and then combine the attitude information with GIS map. It has managed to reduce the positioning error 
to a maximum of 87M within 5 kilometers – becoming new industry benchmark. To address the accumulated error 
caused by cruise and focusing, HikMicro has launched an intelligent closed -loop control fun ction to ensure that 
equipment can self-correct motor’s loss of synchronism after long time cruise, permanently preventing deviation 
                                                                 
10 NETD: Noise-Equivalent Temperature Difference, that is, the minimum temperature difference that an infrared detector can 
detect, is one of the primary indicators to measure the performance of infrared detectors. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
90 
from the preset position. Based on the thermal imaging lens of the non -contact servo-control system, and coupled 
with smart  focusing algorithms, the service life of lens has been increased by nearly 10 times, significantly 
improving the reliability and stability of devices. Products with improved functions have been widely used in forest 
fire prevention, fishery administration  vessels, prohibition of straw burning, border and coast defense and other 
commanding height scenarios, and received positive feedback. 
Temperature measurement products: Thermal imaging has long been a helpful tool for epidemic prevention 
and inspection, f law detection, equipment predictive maintenance, and temperature monitoring during 
manufacturing process. Since the scenario-based demands for temperature measurement is fragmented, it is difficult 
for one single product or solution to meet the needs of different users. In 2021, HikMicro completed its temperature 
screening product category by improving the online temperature measurement, handheld temperature measurement, 
and inspection robot product series. It developed a self -adaptive distance compensation algorithm, which ensures 
temperature measurement accuracy without manually configuring distance parameters. Suitable for targets of 
different sizes and similar distances, it has greatly improved the reliability of temperature measurement accuracy 
and the convenience of device usability. 
Commercial vision products: Thermal imaging’s outdoor applications are mainly for hiking, expedition, 
search and rescue, criminal manhunt, and crackdown on drug and smuggling, among other scenarios. The 
application scenarios are roughly divided into two categories. In outdoor applications, which are demanding on the 
cost performance of equipment and ease of use, HikMicro has launched 256*192 resolution single -lens handheld 
observation products and mobile phone modules to bring users a professional-grade imaging experience. For vertical 
applications, HikMicro has integrated DarkfighterX technology, thermal imaging and laser ranging as one, and 
matched it with the industry's debut scroll -adjusted unbounded continuous zooming fu nction, to enable high -
precision one-click distance measurement and one-handed operation. It has redefined outdoor single-lens equipment, 
offering great convenience to professional users. HikMicro provides a full series of commercial vision products of 
various models and prices, from detectors, components to finished products, and delivers one -stop integrated 
services to partners. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
91 
 
Following HikMicro’s launch of its 160*120 resolution signature product in 2019, which brought down the 
general price of thermal imaging to less than RMB 1,000(namely “thousand-RMB era”), thermal imaging products 
have been applied in more and more industries, stimulating more fragmented demands. In 2020, HikMicro fully 
upgraded its economical products, and empowered applications with open AI platforms, to meet more fragmented 
and customized needs of customers. In 2021, HikMicro launched a full series of 256*192 resolution products priced 
at around RMB 1,000, further broadening the product category. The large-scale applications of the original 160*120 
resolution products has further reduced the cost and popularized thermal imaging, benefitting thousands of 
industries. As for the high-end market, HikMicro introduced high-resolution products such as 1280*1024 resolution 
zoom camera module and positioning system in 2021, to strongly benefit to professional industry applications. 
With independently -developed capability of core components, HikMicro will continue to consolidate its 
product technical superiority, explore more application s cenarios, and consistently lead thermal imaging from a 
niche to the general public. 
5.4 Innovative Business - HikAuto 
HikAuto focuses on the field of intelligent driving. Centered on video sensors, and in combination with 
technologies such as radar, AI, and perceptual data analysis and processing, HikAuto is committed to becoming the 
industry’s leading supplier of vehicle safety and intelligent products powered by video technology. It provides a 
wide range of services to passenger vehicle users, commercial vehicle users, and other types of consumption as well 
as industry users globally. 
5.4.1 Improving Day by Day in the Passenger Vehicle Before-market 
2021 saw significant changes to the before-market structure of the passenger car. China’s vehicle market has 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
92 
achieved positive year -on-year growth for the first time during the past three years, reaching 21.48 11million 
vehicles. Amid the trend of electric and intelligent vehicles, domestic brands have greatly improved their product 
performance, and expanded their market share, while creating more business opportunities for domestic suppliers. 
Capitalizing on the trend, in 2021 the HikAuto’s passenger vehicl e before-market delivered doubled growth, and 
the number of new designated projects doubled as well. The expected sales of new contracts quadrupled compared 
with the end of 2020, laying a solid foundation for continued growth in later stages. 
 
With the rapid expansion of intellignent driving applications, HikAuto has made significant breakthroughs in 
all of its product lines. It has acquired a leading market share of vision sensors in China. Capturing the opportunity 
of the explosive growth in demand for i ntelligent driving perception cameras, it has achieved industry -leading 
coverage of customers and vehicle models, laying a foundation for expanding market share and maintaining rapid 
growth. In terms of intelligent driving, HikAuto started from fully autom atic parking system, relying on its 
advantages in full -stack self-developed system solutions and UV fusion 12 perception algorithms, and developed 
industry-leading product performance. It has won over 10 designated projects of production car models from leading 
independent brands such as Great Wall Motor, Geely, and Chang’an. Regarding intelligent cockpit, HikAuto 
focusing on both exterior and interior visual perception systems, has launched the VIMS (Video Intelligent Monitor 
System). The system supports up to 8 channels of HD video access, and is equipped with smart algorithms for face 
recognition inside and outside the car, fatigue driving monitoring, driving behavior analysis, gesture recognition, 
etc. It is designed to help customers build more powerful s mart cockpits, and has won more than 10 official 
                                                                 
11 Data from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. 
12 Ultrasonic Vision fusion, refers to the combination of ultrasonic radar and vision. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
93 
designated projects including Great Wall Motor, Geely, Chang’an and other customers. 
In the meantime, HikAuto continued to develop joint ventures and international brand markets, and obtain a 
number of desig nated platform-based product projects including Volkswagen, Volvo, Mazda, Toyota and other 
brands on in 2021. 
In 2022 HikAuto will continue to increase investment in intelligent driving sensors, algorithms and system 
products, give full play to its advanta ges in the technology of vision, ultrasonic and millimeter -wave radar fusion 
perception, and develop a more competitive driving -parking integrated full -stack system. Active efforts will be 
spared to explore integrated application solutions of intelligent d riving and intelligent cockpit, so as to provide 
customers with more smart options. 
5.4.2 Innovating in the Passenger Vehicle Aftermarket 
In the automotive aftermarket, passenger car owners' demand for dashcams and panoramic view monitors 
continues to increase, and driving video recording, rear -end collision evidence, injured feigning prevention  , and 
parking view assist have gradually become rigid demands. In 2021, HikAuto’s dashcams and panoramic view 
monitors maintained rapid growth, with both sales and shipments doubling year-on-year. 
 
Based on differentiated technical capabilities such as night vision, AI, and networking, HikAuto has enriched 
its dashcam product line, which is divided into two series: general -purpose and special -purpose, completing a 
comprehensive product mix ranging from 2 -megapixel to 4K. The products have covered all channels including 
mainstream online e-commerce platforms, 4S store groups, and offline auto parts sales channels. The iconic F6/C6 
dashcam series has become a market benchmark of 5-megapixel HD intelligent networked recorders. On such basis, 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
94 
HikAuto launched C8, a new 4K series in 2021, which has introduced the exclusive night vision technology, 
elevating the night vision performance of driving recorders to a new height. 
Regarding the Panoramic View Monitor system, HikAuto has expanded to 7 major vehicle lines and over 50 
vehicle models on the basis of 5 major vehicle lines and 31 vehicle models in 2020.  The system has become an 
industry leader in key indicators such as i mage definition, night visibility, seamless splicing, ultra-low delay, and 
product reliability. In 2021, the whole industry was challenged by supply chain stress. With the support from its 
suppliers, HikAuto ensured the normal delivery of products and offered superior and reliable products and service 
experience to the majority of car owners and consumers. 
HikAuto has established a solid brand image and won the trust of customers in the automotive aftermarket. In 
the future, HikAuto will remain committed to the aftermarket and innovation, to meet the needs of customers and 
car owners. 
5.4.3 Booming in the Commercial Vehicle Market 
In 2021, the commercial vehicle market went through subtle changes, and it has become a consensus that the 
application of on -board video surveillance should be expanded from specified buses, coaches and trucks to all 
freight vehicles. Intelligent technologies such as ADAS (Advanced Driving Assistance System) and DMS (Driver 
Monitor System) have been largely applied to millions of ve hicles; while urban public transportation embraced 
further transformation driven by intelligent networking technologies. HikAuto's commercial vehicle business 
doubled in 2021. 
 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
95 
HikAuto has completed the cross -platform development of fundamental technologi es, using middleware 
technology to rapidly transplant application development to different chip platforms. This improves its response 
efficiency to customers’ tailored needs, and greatly reduces the delivery risk caused by chip shortage. With regard 
to key  technologies, the focus is on the optimization of memory read/write performance, BeiDou positioning 
accuracy, and intelligent algorithms such as ADAS/DMS. Related products and solutions are being applied to 
special-purpose vehicles, trucks, buses, construction vehicles, taxis, ride-hailing, and metro vehicles as scheduled. 
Cloud platforms have enabled access to more than 200,000 vehicle-mounted video channels, providing customers 
with cost-effective O&M solutions. Furthermore, HikAuto has completed transactions with over 1,200 customers, 
and established more than 10 best practice cases, including the Heilongjiang Special -purpose Vehicles for typical 
alpine regions, the Shenzhen Public Transport as a window to the entire world, the Shou Qi Tailored Taxi Services 
serving the Winter Olympics, and the Yutong Bus, the world's top bus seller. 
In 2022, the commercial vehicle market is expected to continue the reform and embrace more application 
amount, higher integration level and greater practicability. In the spe cial-purpose transport vehicles for passenger 
and dangerous goods and freight vehicles market, HikAuto plans to speed up the application of ADAS/DMS, as 
well as the integration of mobile monitoring system and overload/overspeed monitoring systems; in the market for 
public transport, it will promote the intelligent public transport 3.0 system starting with provincial capital cities, and 
advance the integrated application of subsystems such as those for bus monitoring, public transportation scheduling, 
ADAS/DMS, blind zone collision warning, illegal bus lanes occupation, pedestrian priority at crosswalk, electronic 
rearview mirrors, and 5G-V2X; in the construction vehicle market, fatigue driving monitoring, aggressive driving 
monitoring and blind zone collision warning systems will be widely applied and connected with police traffic check 
point and E-police for composite management, to lower the traffic accident rate; and in international markets, video 
surveillance networks will be built for school buses, publ ic transport, and other fields, in order to accelerate 
intelligent application. HikAuto will continue to increase investment in R&D in the commercial vehicle market, 
innovate products and solutions, and improve customer satisfaction, contributing to reduced traffic accidents, lower 
accident losses, and improved transportation efficiency. 
5.5 Innovative Business - HikSemi 
HikSemi is committed to providing worldwide users with professional overall storage solutions, with focusing 
on application scenarios such as industrial control, data center, video surveillance, and consumer business. Boasting 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
96 
complete design, development and manufacturing capabilities, it is now operating four product lines: solid -state 
hard disk SSD, front-end storage, embedded storage and flash memory application. 
5.5.1 Products and Technologies 
Centered on user needs, HikSemi is consistently engaged in technology innovation, to constantly develop and 
improve its four product series. 
Solid-state hard disk SSD products: In 2021 HikSemi upgraded the Zoned 2.0 algorithm cluster, and improve 
reliability and service life of the products to enhance its application advantages in the field of video servers. And 
the first dedicated disk for video surveillance based on QLC 13 technology was released in 2021, offering a better 
option for high-performance, large-capacity, and high-density video surveillance applications. Based on customer 
service data and its established technological capabilities, HikSemi has successively launched services such as 
service life warning, fault diagnosis, data migration from out-of-warranty failed disks and product life extension to 
optimize user experience. 
Front-end storage product line: Relying on the powerful status of the high-end video surveillance sector and 
long-standing expertise in video storage technologies, HikSemi has launched cost-effective video surveillance cards 
suitable for continued data writing scenarios. Meanwhile, it continuously expands the memory cards market, with 
the introduction of cost -effective and highly compatible consumer memory cards to be widely used in civilian 
security, mobile phones, cameras, speakers and other products, as well as dashcam cards for driving recording, and 
handheld gaming cards favored by gamers. HikSemi is also actively investing in the market for memories – a integral 
part of overall storage solutions, and has launched consumer memory products for personal computers and industrial 
memory products for autonomous servers. 
Embedded storage product line: Since its launch in 2019, the range has been providing customers with highly 
reliable and highly compatible products and local services, relying on continued R&D investment, rigorous quality 
control standards and extensive experience in embedded storage application. As of 20 21, HikSemi’s embedded 
                                                                 
13 QLC: Quad-Level Cell, is a type of flash memory. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
97 
storage was available in SLC 14 NAND, eMMC15, LPDDR16, DDR417and other product series, meeting the needs 
of customers in electric power, networking, mobile phones, security, smart home and other industries. 
Flash memory application product line: HikSemi regards satisfying the diverse storage needs of consumers 
as its responsibility, with continued efforts to innovate products and optimize software systems. In terms of mobile 
storage, HikSemi has released up to 10 X -series USB flash d rive products. Tailored for different groups of 
consumers, the products feature varied materials, appearance and design, and are powered by self -developed 
firmware. They have been well received among users, rapidly emerging as a leading brand. Regarding th e mobile 
solid-state hard disk SSD series, EliteX, a benchmark product with a bandwidth of up to 40Gbps, was released in 
July, in order to meet the strong demand for ultra -high-speed reading and writing among professionals and the 
technology-fancier. Its transfer rate is as high as 3000MB/s, making the product a great helper for office work. As 
for the cloud storage series, combined with years of technical expertise, HikSemi released a crowdfunding G1 
Master of single-disk edition on Xiaomiyoupin.com, to meet the needs of Xiaomi fans. Once released, the product 
became an instant hit for its appealing design and premium use experience. 7,000 units were crowdfunded in just 
14 days, demonstrating the popularity of HikSemi's products. 
                                                                 
14 SLC: Single-Level Cell, is a type of flash memory. 
15 eMMC: embedded Multi Media Card, formulated by the MMC Association, is the standard embedded memory specifications for 
products such as mobile phones or tablets. 
16 LPDDR: Low Power Double Data Rate SCRAM (Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory), is a communication standard 
developed by the US JEDEC Solid State Technology Association for low-power memory. Known for low power consumption and 
small size, it is specially used for mobile electronic products. 
17 DDR4: 4th generation Double Data Rate SCRAM (Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory), is a component used to store 
programs and data in computers. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
98 
 
5.5.2 Business development 
HikSemi continues to build a marketing network, and pays equal attention to the industry and channels by 
actively expanding the industry market and steadily developing the channel market. While continuously improving 
its user service system, it sees steady growth in the total number of customers, which reached over 3,000 in 2021, 
and the sales revenue delivered rapid growth as well. 
Depending on the characteristics of different channels of industry, consumption and OEM, HikSemi has been 
building differentiated manufacturing and operation models. Powered by production management tools ERP, PLM 
and SRM, it is committed to developing a digital supply chain in line with strict and improvement-oriented quality 
management systems, continuously enhancing its delivery capability and quality. 
As an irreplaceable functional device in the sectors of consumer electronics, communication equipment and 
IoT, semiconductor memory is one of the most fundamental core components of modern information industry 
applications. Chinese semiconductor memory manufacturers are expected to embrace greater opportunities, with 
the continuous development and growth of emerging industries such as big data, cloud computing, AI, and 5G. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
99 
HikSemi will stay true to its original intention of “storing every beautiful moment and using intelligence to change 
lives” and adhere to its user service concept of “dedicated to customers’ continual success, adding value to 
companies and communities.” Oriented for user demand, it aspires to gain insight into economic trends, and keep 
providing enterprises and consumers with safe and reliable storage devices, systems and solutions through product 
innovation, technological innovation, marketing innovation and brand building, aiming for a leading supplier of 
overall memory solutions in China. 
5.6 Innovative Business - HikFire 
HikFire is dedicated to the construction of the fire protection IoT, visual management and digital 
transformation of fire protection, driven by emerging technologies such as multi -dimensional perception, IoT, 
Internet of Vision, cloud computing, big data and AI, as well as professional image processing technologies, 
innovative security -fire protction integration and IoT -information network integration applications. HikFire’s 
business covers traditional fire protection, smart fire protection, fire safety e-commerce, operation services and other 
sectors, and is committed to developing one-stop fire safety system solutions and one-stop fire management service 
solutions. The aim is to enable smart perception, smart prevention and control, smart management and smart rescue 
of fire protection, making the environment safer and life better. 
5.6.1 Smart Fire Protection: Innovative Technologies for the IoT for Fire Protection 
As the traditional fire prote ction industry undergoes continued changes, the smart fire protection market 
becomes increasingly mature. HikFire has released a full range of smart fire protection products and operation 
management platform software to meet the organization level, industr y level and city level’s fire -fighting IoT 
construction and operation needs, featuring 3D, full coverage and full time domain. Through multi -dimensional 
perception, security-fire integration, system coordination, data sharing and service integration, HikFi re aims to 
enable the early warning, early prevention and control, and early handling of fires, reduce fire safety risks, and 
improve fire management efficiency. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
100 
 
Promoting technological innovation: In 2021, HikFire released a bi -spectrum18 smoke detector to reduce 
the false alarm rate. With active exploration of the integrated application of thermal imaging, AI -based image 
recognition, and spectral analysis technologies, Hikfire released a multi-spectral fire detector that combines thermal 
imaging technology and AI flame analysis to improve the accuracy and timeliness of flame identification. In order 
to enrich the application of security -fire integration in IoT, HikFire has also unveiled a smart terminal graphic 
display device that is integrated with multiple systems such as fire-fighting IoT access, video surveillance, fire alarm 
review, and collaborative firefighting. Through the fusion of the wired advantages of traditional fire protection and 
the wireless technology of smart fire protection, HikFire offers more fire management options for diverse scenarios. 
Advancing industrial application:  According to the characteristics of various industries, HikFire has 
developed fire-fighting IoT solutions for a wide range of industries, including financial services, cultural relics and 
ancient buildings, education, communities, smart buildings, industrial and commercial enterprises, energy and 
metallurgy, elderly care, commercial chains, and new energy. In 2021, HikFire improved product performance in 
different scenario and the efficiency of platform -based management, make the products easy to install, use, and 
maintain, and reduce the comprehensive cost of fire protection establishment and operation, bringing long -term 
value to users. 
 
                                                                 
18 Bi-spectrum detection: The scattering and reflection features of particles of different sizes vary in different wavelengths of 
infrared light and visible light, so that interference sources such as water vapor and dust can be better distinguished from smoke 
particles. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
101 
5.6.2 Traditional Fire Protection: System Integration and Upgrading for the Digital Transformation of Fire 
Protection 
HikFire’s traditional fire protection product portfolio continues to expand, in order to cover the general fire 
protection market. The offerings are divided into  four sectors – early warning, fire alarm, emergency evacuation, 
and automatic fire control. For these four sectors, nine systems have been launched – including automatic fire alarm 
system, emergency lighting and evacuation indicator system, fire broadcasting and phone call system, electrical fire 
monitoring system, fire equipment power monitoring system, residual pressure monitoring system, fire door 
monitoring system, combustible gas detection alarm and gas fire extinguishing control system. Through continuous 
commitment and investment, HikFire aims to strengthen the R&D and accumulation of the underlying technologies 
of traditional fire protection products, promote the integration and upgrade of systems, and improve the application 
capabilities of traditional fire protection systems. 
 
The new-generation digital technologies such as the IoT for fire protection, multi-dimensional perception, and 
big data are accelerating the fusion of traditional fire protection and smart fire protection, leading the fire protection 
sector into the era of AIoT with physical-digital interconnection. Combining industries’ characteristics and realistic 
scenarios, HikFire leverages the three -in-one technical advantages of “traditional fire protection + smart fire 
protection + sm art security,” and continuously upgrades security -fire integration solutions that are gradually 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
102 
covering various industries and scenarios. HikFire proactively explores solutions for security -fire integration and 
prevention-control integration, in a bid to develop a new integrated fire safety solution for both private and public 
sectors, all industries and cities. 
5.6.3 Fire Safety E-commerce: Pursuit of a Green, Smart and Safe Lifestyle 
As fire emergencies frequently take place in residences and vehicles, people’s safety awareness and 
environmental protection awareness are rapidly rising, which further stimulates individual consumers’ and SMEs’ 
demand for new green and safety products. Hi kFire has been accelerating its e-commerce retail business. The gas 
detectors, smoke detectors, and emergency kits are gaining popularity, with sales and reputation on continuous rise 
on leading e-commerce platforms. According to the statistics by the China Bicycle Association, the annual sales of 
electric bicycles in China is over 30 million, and the total ownership is nearly 300 million. In active response to the 
state-level goals for carbon peaking and neutrality, HikFire launched a comprehensive solution for electric bicycle 
fire safety management to facilitate orderly parking and centralized charging control. Featuring a charging 
protection mechanism and connected firefighting, the solution is expected to contributed to a smart and safe life. 
 
5.6.4 Operation Services: Provider of One-stop Fire-fighting Operation and Trusteeship Services 
A digital platform is the key to digital transformation. HikFire’s fire protection operation and trusteeship 
platform provides on -duty services, maintenance services, e lectric moped management services and unit 
management, and employs multi -dimensional monitoring indicators to ensure the quality of operation services. 
Seeing the Internet of Everything as the cornerstone of an intelligent world, HikFire works with fire -fighting 
operation partners to explore a one-stop fire prevention operation and trusteeship model combining “technology + 
service + insurance.” This is designed to promote fire -fighting operation at the town and sub -district levels, and 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
103 
assist grass-roots grid fire management. HikFire seeks to offer standard service models, build a knowledge and 
technology empowerment system which covering training and certification to improve the technical service 
capabilities of fire protection engineers, fire protection operators, fire maintenance service providers and key social 
organizations. With the consistently high maintainability of systems and the premium and efficient O&M services, 
HikFire brings more powerful support and greater value to partners. 
 
5.6.5 Outlook: Standards Upgrade, Imports Substitution, Welcoming Market Growth 
Domestic products are increasingly replacing their foreign counterparts in the traditional fire protection 
industry, and the general -purpose fire protection 19 market is seeing the constant up grade of specifications and 
technologies. While further expanding the market capacity, the new policies are expected to further expand the 
market capacity and enhance the technical threshold of upgrade intelligent applications. Taking GB51309 -2018 
Technical Standard for Fire Emergency Lighting and Evacuate Indicating System as an example, the standard has 
proposed changes to the conventional practices of fixed installation and nearby evacuation, requiring to evacuate 
using the evacuation guideline that best  suits the fire situation; at the same time, the positioning of the system in 
construction projects is in transition from the strong electricity sector to the weak electricity sector. 
The establishment and release of industry standards, regional standards,  and group standards for smart fire -
fighting products are gaining maturity. The demand for integrated management is emerging among schools, 
hospitals, commercial enterprises and other enterprises and institutions. The industry is presenting a trend of IoT 
integration, prevention -control integration, security -fire integration, and data -intelligence integration, which is 
highly consistent with HikFire's philosophy. HikFire will actively participate in the dialogue with industry platforms, 
work hard to promote  the establishment of standards, develop the AIoT for fire protection, and assist the visual 
                                                                 
19 General-purpose fire protection: It mainly refers to civil and general commercial fire protection, as opposed to industrial 
and special-purpose fire protection. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
104 
management and digital development of fire protection, jointly shaping the digital and intelligent future of the fire 
protection industry chain. 
5.7 Innovative Business - Rayin 
Rayin is focusing on X-ray detection technologies, dedicated to be a leading technology R&D, manufacturing, 
equipment sales and leasing services provider of invisible light detection equipment . Relying on the long-standing 
expertise in X -ray, millimeter-wave, other multidimensional perception technologies, AI, IoT, etc., Rayin keep 
enabling technology and creating value for the fields of intelligent security inspection and intelligent industrial 
manufacturing. 
 
 
5.7.1 Luggage Security Inspection 
Rayin continues to expand its intelligent luggage security inspection product category. On the basis of the 
existing 5030/6550/100100 conventional security inspection machines, in 2021 Rayin released the 140100 security 
inspection machine designed for logistics and the 4233 lightweight security inspection machine to meet the needs 
of luggage inspection in different scenarios. Data networking, intelligent recognition, person -luggage association 
and other technologies are employed to expand intelligent a pplications and provide one -stop security inspection 
offerings, empowering users for the closed-loop management of security inspection. 
Committed to the research on X -ray imaging technology, Rayin has released the Ji Xian series of intelligent 
security inspection machines equipped with high-performance security inspection dedicated processors for and the 
new-generation image enhancement engine. While realizing the vivid recovery of image information, it offers 
clearer images and more details, significantly optimizing the experience of staff checking tiny items in the luggage. 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
105 
  
 Keyboard sample/ Details rendered by traditional X-ray imaging/ Details rendered by new-generation 
image processing engine 
5.7.2 Human Security Inspection 
In the early stage of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, Rayin innovatively integrated and expanded a variety 
of IoT sensing methods based on the conventional metal detection technology, for the purpose of non -contact and 
quick temperature measurement and security inspection. In 2021 , the temperature measurement and security 
inspection product continued to be optimized and upgraded. It was networked with the Health Code, and meanwhile 
improved in metal detection and classification capabilities, to meet the fragmented and personalized needs of 
customers. 
Rayin also released a millimeter -wave human body check gate integrated with active high -frequency 
millimeter-wave imaging technology, intelligent recognition technology, and image processing technology. 
Intended to detect and alarm pote ntial dangerous goods such as metals, liquids, and plastics, it has expanded the 
inspection scope of prohibited goods and improved detection accuracy, ensuring the safety of key locations. 
5.7.3 Industrial Detection 
 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
106 
Rayin leverages the penetrating and imaging capabilities of X -ray and advanced AI analysis algorithms to 
identify different detection targets according to their specific imaging characteristics, thereby enabling the 
intellignet detection of foreign objects and defects in industrial production. Integrated industrial detection products 
and solutions are also developed to empower business partners to jointly create new applications in industrial 
intelligent manufacturing. 
Rayin has launched product series for industrial flaw detection, electronic inspection, food inspection and 
others, which greatly improves the accuracy and efficiency of industrial detection. The products have been applied 
to a number of projects for industrial flaw detection, foreign matter/d efect detection, and intelligent material 
counting. 
  
Detection of foreign matters and defects in food/ SMT material counting/Result of defect detection 
Based on its understanding of detection technologies such as X -ray and millimeter-wave, Rayin implements 
Hikvision full-spectrum IoT strategy and plans to continue increasing R&D investment in invisible light imaging 
technology. The aim is to improve product performance, expand market coverage, and tap into application potential. 
Rayin focus on developing more innovative applications of intelligent security check and industrial intelligent 
manufacturing, and consistently contribute to the creation of a safer, more convenient and better society. 
5.8 Innovative Business – HikImaging 
HikImaging probes into the needs of users in the medical industry, committed to the research on vision imaging, 
multi-dimensional perception, AI and other related technologies in medical scenarios, so as to provide customers 
with products and related solutions. HikImaging’s busines s scope covers medical vision and digital healthcare, 
among other professions. 
 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
107 
5.8.1 Core Technologies 
To address the professional requirements of the medical industry for specific imaging effects, HikImaging has 
developed certain competitive advantages in full-link 4K, real-time streaming media transmission, and intelligent 
AI algorithms based on its technology accumulation and continuous R&D in video images: 
Full-link 4K: 4K Ultra HD produces images that are four times the resolution of traditional HD images. In 
medical practice, 4K Ultra HD endoscopy allows users to observe fine blood vessels, nerves and fascia, as well as 
details of lesions and biopsy sites that are difficult to see using traditional HD endoscopy. Compared with traditional 
endoscopy, 4K Ultra HD, with higher resolution, definition, and color distinction, is able to provide physicians with 
a stronger sense of depth and better control over surgeries. With y ears of operation experience in the video field, 
HikImaging not only possesses multi-spectral fusion and 4K imaging technologies for front-end acquisition, but has 
also enabled full-link 4K vision imaging from transmission, storage and display, with clearer details and better color 
reproduction. 
Real-time streaming media transmission:  Depending on mainstream real -time transmission technologies, 
HikImaging has optimized the underlying media transmission engine and combined it with HikImaging’s CODEC 
expertise to improve QoE (Quality of Experience). In the case of private deployment,  HikImaging's real-time 
transmission technology supports more than 500 users for simultaneous real -time audio and video interactions 
across the Internet, and dynamically adjusts coding parameters to adapt to various network conditions, guaranteeing 
the real-time ability of media transmission and the integrity of interaction information. For the medical industry, it 
is also adaptive to the complex images of endoscopes, and enables th e smooth transmission of 4K streams across 
Internet environment. 
Intelligent AI algorithms: HikImaging combines intelligent AI technologies with endoscopes. By building 
mapping knowledge domains and applying AI -based automatic recognition, it assists physi cians in diagnosis and 
treatment and reduces missed diagnosis of lesions. Through determination powered by AI algorithms, the inspection 
screen can present digital and characterized information to help doctors quickly determine whether there is a lesion 
in inspection sites, and accurately locate the lesion, making diagnosis more efficient, faster and accurate. 
5.8.2 Solutions 
1) Medical Vision: 
In minimally invasive surgeries, diagnosis and treatment, endoscopes are used to help the doctor see lesions 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
108 
that cannot be displayed by X-ray, MRI and other external examination approaches. Therefore, endoscopy systems 
play a crucial role in inspections and are considered to be an extension of modern doctors' hands and brains, almost 
“pervasive”. 
In 2021 HikImaging l aunched a series of hard endoscopy solutions (4K auto -focus camera system, 4K 
fluorescence camera system, 3D camera system, ultra -HD optical endoscopy, etc.) and medical display solutions 
for minimally invasive surgeries; and for minimally invasive diagnosis and treatment, it has introduced an array of 
electronic endoscopy solutions (electronic endoscopic camera system, reusable electronic endoscope and disposable 
electronic endoscopes and other overall solutions.) These solutions have now covered gastroenterology, respiratory, 
general surgery, thoracic surgery, urology, orthopedics, gynecology and other departments, becoming indispensable 
medical diagnostic and surgical devices. 
HikImaging’s medical vision products all comply with the general requirements f or electromagnetic 
compatibility in the YY0505 standard for medical electrical equipment and the general requirements for basic safety 
in the standard GB9706.1. Together with the independently-developed test software HIKMED iTest, it can perform 
performance parameter tests in line with the YY/T1603 and YY/T1587 standards, which greatly shortens the cycle 
of registration and inspection. In 2021, HikImaging helped 8 domestic customers obtain registration certificates for 
medical endoscopic imaging equipment (4K camera systems, etc.), while assisting customers with registration and 
declaration in 4 provinces. 
 
Hard endoscopy solutions/ Electronic endoscopy solutions 
Endoscope is a medical device that directly contact with the skin, mucous membranes and sterile tissues of 
patients. However, since the endoscope contains many small, narrow and long open channels, it potentially provides 
an environment for the survival an d cross-infection of microorganisms, secretions and blood, which may lead to 
medical malpractice. In 2021 HikImaging introduced fully compatible disposable electronic endoscopes ranging 
from 40,000-2 million pixels, catering to the needs of different depar tments and surgical procedures. Also, a full -
link solution consisting of a disposable scope + host was unveiled. Lightweight, portable, and free from 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
109 
decontamination, it gives endoscopy more flexible application scenarios. 
2) Digital Healthcare 
In 2021, Hi kImaging continued to upgrade its digital medical products, and introduced high -frame-rate 4K 
surgical field camera, 4K panoramic camera, medical video recording terminal, 5G medical video communication 
terminal, 5G mobile teaching demonstration system and other products. Powered by 5G technologies, the ultra-HD 
video products have been flexibly and rapidly applied to digital operating room, digital ward, telemedicine, medical 
education and training and other professions. 
Digital operating room: By professional 4K surgical field imaging, panoramic recording, image access of 
CT/surgical microscope/DSA/monitor and other medical equipment, multi-screen fusion, lip synchronization, audio 
and video two -way interaction, public network cloud interaction, cloud live  broadcast and other technologies 
HikImaging is able to meet demand for patient information access, intraoperative image scheduling, remote surgical 
teaching demonstration, cloud live broadcast of surgeries, remote surgical instruction, surgical consultati on, 
intraoperative remote family communication, surgical process recording and documentation, and medical exchanges 
during the clinical operations at hospitals. The purpose is to establish information -driven, networked and digital 
operating rooms. 
Digital ward: HikImagin intelligent nursing system has introduced smart bedside cards, smart interactive 
screens, smart doorway screens, corridor screens, nurse station call management hosts and nurse station smart care 
screens surrounding the varied requirements of doctors, nurses, patients, medical staff, nursing managers, and 
hospital managers. It is thus able to provide wards with a new model of timely, mobile, continued, closed-loop, and 
user-friendly information management. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
110 
 
Telemedicine: Based on  its technical capabilities in audio and video processing, IoT, big data, and AI, 
HikImaging has independently developed a series of telemedicine products (5G remote system, 5G medical video 
communication terminal, remote consultation system, remote ward round system, 4K shot camera system, etc.) for 
medical and health institutions at all levels from province, city, county, township, to village. With access capabilities 
to all scenarios and terminals, it enables remote consultation, remote surgical diagnosis, re mote teaching, remote 
monitoring, remote ward rounds, two-way referral and other services. 
Medical education and training:  The traditional teaching model of watch & learn is limited by limited 
observation space, as well as little practice time and few prac tices for students, which undermines the effect of 
medical teaching and training. In response to the above shortcomings, HikImaging has launched a comprehensive 
solution for visual medical teaching for medical education scenarios, and a comprehensive solution for experimental 
training and teaching for middle and higher vocational training scenarios. With professional medical education and 
training equipment, fixed/mobile teaching systems, medical teaching platforms, comprehensive application 

                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
111 
platforms for e xperimental training and other software and hardware, a holistic range of teaching services from 
preview before class, class teaching, to after -school review has been established. At the same time, supported by 
cloud interactive platforms, teaching activit ies are extended to a wider range, powering famous teachers' classes, 
large-scale teaching, and remote interaction between schools and hospitals, schools and companies. 
During the pandemic, HikImaging helped medical staff with non-contact communication and consultation with 
patients through digital equipment. With nurse station call management host, visual hospital bed extensions, and 
hospital bed intercom extensions installed, two-way visual intercom and non-contact remote consultation between 
patients and medical staff are realized, which makes it convenient for medical staff to know about the patients’ 
illness in time and lower the risk of infection among medical staff. 
The construction of a healthy China will be comprehensively advanced, according to the  Resolution on the 
Outline of the 14th Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development and Long-Range Objectives through the 
Year 2035 . In the Medical Equipment Industry Development Plan (2021 -2025), the Ministry of Industry and 
Information Technology has made a detailed plan for the key priorities and breakthroughs of medical equipment. 
In particular, medical endoscopes and other imaging diagnostic equipment are one of the strategic objectives that 
require breakthroughs. 
In 2022, HikImaging will stay committed to the healthcare field, probing into the needs of users in the medical 
industry, and making continuous investment in the R&D of ultra HD, AI, 3D, miniaturization, and multi -spectral 
technologies. By focusing on the image effects and intelligent a pplications of audio and video medical products, 
HikImaging aspires to consolidate its core competitiveness and develop differentiated products. It will also prioritize 
the investment in the automatic manufacturing technique of miniaturized products, estab lish a production quality 
control system, and build up a complete supply chain system, providing industry users and customers with more 
professional products and solutions. 
 
II. Analysis of Core Competitiveness 
Demand in the AIOT industry has always been f ragmented and scenario based. How to meet personalized 
demands and create scenario -based solutions while maximizing business  economies of scale is a challenge that 
faced by all industry participants. The fragmentation and personalization of user demands make it difficult to get an 
accurate picture of customer/user demands, making the product diversification and customization necessary, thus 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
112 
the characteristics of industrial segmentation and demand customization of solutions are increasingly prominent. 
Providing marketing support for customers and users is also becoming delayering and more specialized due to 
fragmented demand. Small orders and flexibility in the production process have become a necessity, while other 
aspects of business operations have also changed to accommodate the fragmented industry characteristics. With its 
over two decades of experience in the fields of security and AI oT, Hikvision is able to adapt to the fragmentation 
of industry demands, understand the limitations of such fragmentation on efficiency improvement, and also foresee 
the feasibility of certain degrees of scalability. Hikvision  firmly believes that AI oT breeds broad market 
opportunities, helping people to establish perception, connections, computing, and applications between people and 
things as well as between things. This is the best platform for Hikvision to grow alongside the industry. We expend 
great effort pursuing science and technology for good, in a hope to enable everyone to enjoy a brighter future. 
In 2021, the predictability of the internal and external environment is extremely poor. The difficulties brought 
by the global epidemic, sanctions, chip shortage, rising raw material/labor costs, industry reshuffle, etc., pose great 
challenges to the continuity and stability of enterprise operations. The external environment is ever changing, posing 
extremely high requirements on the enterprise management strategy of long-term stability, short-term flexibility and 
aggressiveness, and other aspects. Adhering to the business philosophy of "professionalism, honesty, and integrity”, 
Hikvision strives for development in difficulties and survival in challenges. The performance achieved by Hikvision 
in 2021 demonstrates the company's aggressiveness, tenacity and stability, which is also the result of the company's 
long-term approach. 
1. Continuous increase in R&D investment, advancement of platform -based operation of software and 
hardware R&D 
With video technology as the starting point, Hikvision has gradually expanded perception techn ology from 
visible light to infrared, X-ray, millimeter wave and other fields, continued to explore perception methods such as 
sound, temperature, humidity, pressure and magnetism, and further expanded upon multi -dimensional perception 
capabilities. Hikvis ion’s technical capabilities in the fields of AI and big data is increasingly profound. The 
Company expanded AIoT applications to thousands of industries, forming a complete system from perception to 
cognition, from products to solutions, and from data to applications. In addition, we have continued to improve our 
practice-oriented capabilities through the design, implementation and operation of medium and large-scale projects, 
while improving technologies, products and solutions through real project practice, forming a virtuous circle from 
R&D to the market and from the market back to R&D. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
113 
During the reporting period,  Hikvision’s investment in R&D accounted for over 10% of its total operating 
income, while the number of R&D and technical service personnel continued its stable growth, accounting for nearly 
50% out of Hikvision’s total workforce. The Company will continue to maintain high intensity of technical 
investments, consolidate the foundation of intelligent technology, enrich the varieties of intellige nt devices, 
concentrate on exploring the performance and efficiency of intelligent applications, and build comprehensive 
capabilities through continuous R&D investments, in order to lay a solid foundation for Hikvision’s steady 
development in the AIOT industry. 
2. In-depth exploration of user demands to enhance regional marketing capabilities 
Facilitated by its provincial business centers, Hikvision continues to localize business footprint, with over 300 
city branches covering most cities across China, forming a hierarchical city-based marketing system prioritized by 
economic development and population density, while taking the pilot area as the benchmark.  The Company has 
established 23 regional functional centers and corresponding 66 branches overseas, forming  a marketing network 
architecture of headquarters –regions–countries. The headquarters is tasked with building business support 
capabilities, while regions establish operations and service systems, and countries adapt to local conditions to deeply 
cultivate specific local markets. Hikvision’s long-term and consistent investment in the construction of marketing 
system has formed a broad and strong network of domestic and overseas marketing organizations, local talent, and 
partners, enabling marketing teams  to quickly communicate demands with customers and users and engage in 
productive information exchange and business communication. 
Hikvision has expanded industry applications through dividing domestic business into three business groups: 
public business grou p (PBG), enterprise business group (EBG) and SME business group (SMBG); overseas 
distribution and industry are complementary to one another, and put into practice “one policy for one country”. The 
organic synergy of industry -driven region, region -driven in dustry, marketing -driven R&D, and R&D -driven 
marketing helps the company to gain insight into user demands, enabling both marketing and technical R&D work 
to be performed in a targeted manner, thereby steadily driving the Company’s business forward. 
3. Constantly improving resilience to ensure supply chain stability 
Hikvision sells nearly 30,000 different models of hardware equipment and often encounters scattered orders, 
frequent changes in demands, and high requirements for the completeness of supply c hain. Therefore, its supply 
chain system must have flexible and efficient manufacturing capabilities to meet the fragmented and diverse 
industry needs. During the reporting period, the Company appropriately responded to the adverse effects of chip 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
114 
shortages and raw material price hikes resulting from the imbalance of chip production capacity and supply, 
ensuring the continuous and stable supply of its products. 
With its domestic manufacturing bases in Hangzhou Tonglu and Chongqing, Hikvision has proceeded with the 
construction of a manufacturing base in Wuhan and expansion plans in Tonglu and Chongqing, while establishing 
local factories in India, Brazil and the United Kingdom to support global product supply. The Company has 
established an agile and flexibl e manufacturing system and industry -leading automated production capabilities, 
which allows it to continuously improve its capacity for lean production and intelligent manufacturing to meet the 
demands of small batch, multi-batch, and large-scale product manufacturing. 
Taking advantage of its procurement scale, Hikvision has developed stable and mutually beneficial cooperative 
relations with suppliers, helping them quickly iterate and improve upon products over the long-term. The Company 
has helped over a t housand supplier partners around the world to achieve rapid development, which in turn has 
strengthened the stability of the overall industrial supply chain. In response to supply chain uncertainty caused by 
sanctions and the COVID-19 epidemic in recent years, the Company has continued to maintain large stockpiles of 
raw materials and to hedge the risks brought by changes in the external environment through high inventory level.  
4． Continuously improving internal management capabilities through optimizing methods and tools 
Amidst an ever-changing competitive landscape, whether a company can perform internal resource allocation 
more efficiently than competitors and lower the cost of internal information exchange is an important aspect of 
enterprise competitiveness. Irrespective of how the internal and external environment and times have been changing, 
Hikvision has always taken a realistic and pragmatic approach to its business and has remained focused on how to 
make the business better and stronger, while adhering to the business philosophy of “professionalism, honesty, and 
integrity” as the guidance of the business development and the belief system to be upheld by all employees. 
As its business continues to evolve, Hikvision has consistently updated its reso urce organization and 
management methods accordingly. As for business direction and goal setting, the company has formed a systematic 
strategic planning method which is regularly updated and applied universally, facilitating effective communication 
and alignment of each business and functional department to ensure clear goals and division of responsibility. In 
terms of internal management, Hikvision has promoted customer-centered management reform, implementing over 
100 management reform initiatives each year to continue optimizing resource layout and streamlining collaboration. 
The Company focuses its efforts on IT system construction to continuously optimize and improve the efficiency of 
business systems. The company is striving for continuous improvements in many aspects including promoting the 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
115 
identification and management of financial risks, building a digital quality management system, improving internal 
control mechanisms, pursuing the construction of compliance systems, protecting innovation achievements, and etc. 
5. Attracting and uniting outstanding talents, building a people-oriented organizational climate 
Hikvision considers talents as the most important source of enterprise competitiveness, recruiting talent from 
all around the world, while adhering to the employment concept of “talent -focused, growing together.”  The 
Company has formulated a dual career development path consisting of management sequence and professional 
sequence, constantly improving upon the talent discovery and performance appraisal  mechanism and identifying 
and assigning people in an empirical manner, to  boost the morale and creativity of employees and improve 
organizational capabilities. The comprehensive employee reward system has initially taken shape, which  consists 
of compensation and benefits, equity incentives and innovative business co-investment etc., further developing the 
distribution mechanism for employees to participate in and benefit from the Company’s growth.  Employees 
participating in incentives shares and co -investment can obtain long -term individual returns through their 
contributions to the Company’s performance, coordinating the long -term development of business with the 
continuous employee growth. 
Hikvision provides multi-level training courses for employees on various career tracks, which provides impetus 
for the consolidation and upgrading of the Company’s crucial role players and reservation and development of 
backup talent. Hikvision provides extensive and in-depth training services to all employees, which gua rantees the 
continuous reinforcement of the Company’s values and improvement of professional capabilities.  The Company 
encourages its employees to freely organize hobby clubs and regularly hold diversified cultural and recreational 
activities to create an equal, open-minded and positive organizational climate. In addition, themed events such as 
“Face-to-Face with Executives,”  “Dialogue with Managers,”  “Humanities Lecture Hall” and “Book Club” have 
promoted well-rounded growth of employees. 
  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
116 
III. Core Business Analysis 
1. Overview 
As the global COVID -19 epidemic persisted in 2021 for the second year, epidemic prevention and anti -
epidemic continued to have a huge impact on the regional economy. With the intensification of reverse globalization, 
conflicts and confrontations between certain countries continued to increase, and the political and economic 
landscape posed increasingly severe challenges to business operations. Global chip shortages continued, and soaring 
raw material prices exacerbated rising manufacturing costs, while domestic policy adjustment in the education and 
real estate industries led to a reshuffle of the industry and resulted in significant changes. 
Amidst the complex and rapidly changing domestic and foreign landscape, the challenges for enterprises to 
achieve sustainable and stable growth are ever increasing. Faced with various external uncertainties, Hikvision 
remained focusing on developing its inherent capabilities, maintained a consistent business strategy, and ensured 
the smooth development of global business through steady and continuous supply chain management. During the 
reporting period, the Company achieved a total operating income of RMB 81.42 billion, representing year -over-
year growth of 28.21%, and realized a net profit attributable to shareholders of the Company of RMB 16.80 billion, 
representing year-over-year growth of 25.51%. 
 (1) Sustained investment in R&D, forming a solid foundation for company development 
In 2021, Hikvision invested RMB 8.25 billion in R&D, accounting for 10.13% of the company’s total operating 
income. The Company had over 20,000 R&D and technical service personnel, upholding its commitment to 
significant R&D investment. Technological innovation serves as the driving force for the development of Hikvision, 
and only through continuous technological innovation can the Company continue to grow. 
Hikvision continued to advance technology accumulation in AIoT fields, gradually expanding its full-spectrum 
perception technology platform from visible light to infrared, X-ray, millimeter wave and other bands. After years 
of product R&D and innovation, the Company currently has nearly 30,000 product models for sale, enabling it to 
better meet the fragmented demands of users. Hikvision will continue to exploit th e advantages of transforming 
technology to product engineering, and continue to develop new technologies and products to lead the development 
of the industry.  
 (2) Building a technology platform to enhance comprehensive technical strength 
In 2021, the Company continued to promote the construction of technology platforms, further strengthened the 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
117 
construction of underlying technology capabilities and specialized technologies, and improved R&D efficiency, 
quality and skills through the reuse and empowerment of technical capabilities, thereby concentrating superior 
resources to break through the core technical pain points and forming the technical foundation to support the long-
term development of product business. At present, the Company has formed a number o f general technology 
platforms and product technology platforms. 
In 2021, leveraging its unified software technology framework, the company has gradually unlocked software 
development efficiency and gradually improved its software development platform, con tinuously supporting the 
customization and development capability of regional software. 
 (3) Continuous increase in inventory level to ensure continuous and stable supply 
In 2021, the company proactively responded to the fluctuations and challenges caused by the imbalance 
between supply and demand of certain raw materials and supply chain switching, working closely with its upstream 
partners to continue to increase inventory levels, effectively cope with the industrial-wide shortage of chips, stabilize 
the adverse effects caused by fluctuations in commodities, in order to ensure supply continuity. Through prudent 
supply chain planning, the company was able to further solidif y its advantages in product supply and price 
competition.  
In 2021, the company also continued to promote lean production management, improved the level of intelligent 
manufacturing, optimized delivery efficiency, and overcame various challenges brought by  labor and energy 
consumption to ensure the steady development of business. 
 (4) Innovative business layout to support long-term solid growth 
In 2021, five innovative business companies achieved operating income in excess of RMB one billion with 
positive net profits. With the rapid development of innovative businesses, the overall contribution of innovative 
businesses to the company’s total sales has further increased, and is becoming an increasingly important growth 
driver for the company. 
In 2021, real estate, education and other industries in China experienced large fluctuations as a result of policy 
adjustments, which had a certain impact on the overall growth of EBG business. However, real estate and education 
are closely related to the national economy and livelihood of the people, so they still have plenty of potentials for 
future development, and it is expected that there will still be great growth in the future. SMBG and PBG business 
maintained solid growth. Despite the impact of the COVID -19 epidemi c in overseas markets, the company’s 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
118 
overseas market share continued to increase thanks to its good supply capacity and solid business development on 
the marketing end. Diversified business layout is the guarantee for the stable growth of the company, and different 
businesses form good synergy and interaction, which together help the company to achieve stability and long-term 
sustainable development. 
 (5) Continuous promotion of digital marketing to improve the marketing system 
In 2021, the Company continued to expand its marketing service network, bringing itself closer to customers 
and users. At present, Hikvision has 32 provincial business centers and 309 city branches and offices nationwide, 
as well as 66 overseas branches to provide products and service s to 155 countries and regions around the world, 
solidifying its marketing and service network presence around the world. 
The Company continues to advance process management reform, enhance company -wide operational 
efficiency, and improve organizational ma nagement capabilities, ensuring that it evolves and keeps up with the 
times to support the company’s long-term business development. 
2. Operating Incomes and Operating Costs 
1) Operating income structure 
Unit：RMB 
 
2021 2020 YoY Change 
(%) Amount Proportion to 
operating income Amount Proportion to 
operating income 
Total operating income 81,420,053,539.27 100.00% 63,503,450,891.78 100.00% 28.21% 
Classified by industry 
AIoT products and services 81,420,053,539.27 100.00% 63,503,450,891.78 100.00% 28.21% 
Classified by product 
Products and services for 
main business 20 65,145,683,074.74 80.01% 55,720,857,614.39 87.74% 16.91% 
Constructions 4,003,746,727.88 4.92% 1,614,246,940.42 2.54% 148.03% 
Subtotal 69,149,429,802.62 84.93% 57,335,104,554.81 90.29% 20.61% 
Smart home business 3,948,427,896.29 4.85% 2,918,904,302.62 4.60% 35.27% 
Robotic business  2,761,636,666.33 3.39% 1,358,653,520.55 2.14% 103.26% 
                                                                 
20 Main business refers to the business parts other than the innovative businesses. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
119 
 
2021 2020 YoY Change 
(%) Amount Proportion to 
operating income Amount Proportion to 
operating income 
Thermal imaging business21 2,214,127,005.65 2.72% 35,203,088.48 0.06% 6,189.58% 
Auto electronics business 1,431,895,295.48 1.76% 654,061,647.69 1.03% 118.92% 
Storage business 1,384,585,038.78 1.70% 791,441,667.03 1.25% 74.94% 
Other innovative businesses22 529,951,834.12 0.65% 410,082,110.60 0.65% 29.23% 
Subtotal 12,270,623,736.65 15.07% 6,168,346,336.97 9.71% 98.93% 
Classified by region 
Domestic 59,434,989,705.17 73.00% 45,806,567,913.73 72.13% 29.75% 
Overseas 21,985,063,834.10 27.00% 17,696,882,978.05 27.87% 24.23% 
Note: The data listed in the subtotals may differ slightly from the aggregated results of the relevant individual data 
due to rounding. 
 
Operating income structure23 
Unit: RMB 100mn  
 2021 2020 YoY Change (%) 2019 
Domestic 
main 
business 
PBG 191.61 159.87 19.85% 153.14 
EBG 166.29 147.24 12.94% 124.49 
SMBG 134.90 92.09 46.49% 93.46 
Other products and services for 
main business 
9.43 9.71 -2.88% 8.26 
Overseas 
main 
business 
Products and services for main 
business 189.26 164.44 15.09% 152.86 
Innovative businesses24 122.71 61.68 98.93% 44.37 
Total 814.20 635.03 28.21% 576.58 
 
                                                                 
21 The thermal imaging business' 2020 operating income only includes thermal imaging sensor’s operating 
income. 
22 Other innovative businesses include the products and services of the innovative business subsidiaries, such as 
HikFire, Rayin and HikImaging. Same below. 
23 The operating income from domestic main business (including three major business groups in domestic and 
other products and services for main business) and overseas main business only include Hikvision’s main 
business’s products and services, excluding operating income from innovative businesses. 
24 Innovative businesses’ operating income includes its domestic and overseas operating income 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
120 
2）Industries, products or regions accounting for more than 10% of the Company’s operating income or 
operating profit  
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Unit: RMB 
 Operating income Operating cost Gross margin 
YoY Change 
(%) of operating 
income 
YoY Change 
(%) of operating 
cost  
YoY Change 
(%) of gross 
margin 
Classified by industry 
AIoT products and 
services 81,420,053,539.27 45,329,400,332.65 44.33% 28.21% 33.49% -2.20% 
Classified by product 
Products and 
services for main 
business 
65,145,683,074.74 34,944,137,550.04 46.36% 16.91% 21.60% -2.07% 
Constructions 4,003,746,727.88 3,084,364,818.86 22.96% 148.03% 127.88% 6.81% 
Innovative 
businesses 12,270,623,736.65 7,300,897,963.75 40.50% 98.93% 88.77% 3.20% 
Subtotal 81,420,053,539.27 45,329,400,332.65 44.33% 28.21% 33.49% -2.20% 
Classified by region  
Domestic 59,434,989,705.17 33,005,873,384.67 44.47% 29.75% 30.84% -0.46% 
Overseas 21,985,063,834.10 12,323,526,947.98 43.95% 24.23% 41.15% -6.71% 
When the statistical caliber of the Company's main business data is adjusted during the reporting period, the 
Company's main business data would be adjusted according to the end of the reporting period in the most recent 
period. 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
3）If revenue from physical products sales greater than revenue from providing services 
√ Yes □ No 
Industry Item Unit 2021 2020 YoY Change (%) 
AIoT products and 
services 
Sales volume Per unit 194,410,923 139,309,170 39.55% 
Output volume Per unit 207,744,025 138,254,927 50.26% 
Explanation on why the related data varied by more than 30% on a YOY basis 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
During the reporting period, the Company's performance maintained steady growth, while implementing a high 
inventory strategy to secure the supply chain, resulting in an increase in both sales and production. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
121 
4)  Fulfillment of signed significant sales contracts and procurement contracts by the reporting period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
5) Operating cost structure 
Classified by industry  
  
 
Unit: RMB 
Industry Item 
2021 2020 YoY Change 
(%) Amount Proportion to 
operating cost Amount Proportion to 
operating cost 
AIoT products 
and services Operating cost 45,329,400,332.65 100.00% 33,957,697,857.73 100.00% 33.49% 
 
Classified by product  
Unit: RMB  
Product Item 
2021 2020 YoY Change 
(%) Amount Proportion to 
operating cost Amount Proportion to 
operating cost 
Products and 
services for main 
business 
Operating cost 34,944,137,550.04 77.09% 28,736,623,697.81 84.62% 21.60% 
Constructions Operating cost 3,084,364,818.86 6.80% 1,353,524,939.67 3.99% 127.88% 
Innovative 
businesses Operating cost 7,300,897,963.75 16.11% 3,867,549,220.25 11.39% 88.77% 
Subtotal Operating cost 45,329,400,332.65 100.00% 33,957,697,857.73 100.00% 33.49% 
 
6) Any change in consolidation scope during the reporting period 
√Yes □ No   
During the reporting period, the Company has newly set up one wholly -owned subsidiaries and four holding 
subsidiaries, acquired two subsidiaries, added a new subsidiary due to the change in voting  rights, liquidated and 
cancelled four subsidiaries, reduced one subsidiary due to the cancellation of the entrusted management agreement, 
which have caused the change in consolidation scope. For more details, please refer to Financial Report Note (VI) 
“Changes in consolidation scope” of the financial statement. 
 
7) Significant change or adjustment of the Company’s business, products or services during the reporting 
period:  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
 
 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
122 
8) Major customers and suppliers:  
Sales to major customers of the Company  
Sales to top five customers (RMB)   2,763,453,340.67  
Total sales to top five customers as a percentage of the total sales for the year (%)  3.39% 
Total sales to the related parties in top five customers as a percentage of the total 
sales for the year (%)  0.00% 
Information on top five customers  
No.  Name of Customer  Sales Amount (RMB)  Percentage of total sales for the year 
1 First  786,004,392.08 0.97% 
2 Second 751,944,177.56 0.92% 
3 Third  471,189,238.44 0.58% 
4 Fourth  402,390,635.86 0.49% 
5 Fifth  351,924,896.73 0.43% 
Total -- 2,763,453,340.67 3.39% 
Other information of major customers  
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
Major suppliers of the Company  
Total purchases from top five suppliers (RMB)   8,818,154,553.89  
Total purchases from top five suppliers as a percentage of the total purchases for the year (%)   17.81% 
Total purchases from the related parties in the top five suppliers as a percentage of the total 
purchases for the year (%) 2.93% 
Information on top five suppliers of the Company  
No.  Supplier Name  Purchase Amount (RMB) Percentage of total purchase for the year 
1 First  4,045,973,116.10 8.17% 
2 Second  1,499,990,535.26 3.03% 
3 Third  1,448,578,862.48 2.93% 
4 Fourth  947,822,146.38 1.91% 
5 Fifth  875,789,893.67 1.77% 
Total  -- 8,818,154,553.89 17.81% 
Other information of major suppliers  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
123 
3. Expenses  
Unit: RMB  
 2021 2020 YoY Change 
(%) Note of significant change  
Selling expenses 8,586,443,668.02 7,377,790,744.58 16.38% Continue to increase investment in domestic 
and overseas marketing networks 
Administrative expenses 2,132,250,463.96 1,790,013,088.76 19.12% 
Due to the expansion of the Company's 
business scale and increased number of 
employees  
Financial expenses -133,343,257.84 396,254,772.56 -133.65% Affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations, 
foreign exchange losses decreased  
R&D expenses 8,251,645,101.39 6,378,651,762.42 29.36% Continue to increase R&D investment 
 
4. R&D Investment 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
R&D personnel of the Company  
 2021 2020 Change Percentage 
Number of R&D staff (ppl)  25,352  20,597  23.09% 
R&D staff as percentage of Total 
headcount  48.06% 48.25% -0.19% 
Education structure of R&D staff - - - 
Bachelor degree 16,305  12,873  26.66% 
Master’s degree  7,159  6,275  14.09% 
Master’s degree or above 129  100  29.00% 
others 1,759  1,349  30.39% 
Age composition of R&D staff - - - 
Under 30 years old 15,388  12,945  18.87% 
30-40 years old 9,425  7,324  28.69% 
Over 40 years old 539  328  64.33% 
 
R&D investment of the Company  
 2021 2020 Change Percentage 
Amount of R&D expenses (RMB)  8,251,645,101.39 6,378,651,762.42 29.36% 
R&D expenses as a percentage of 
operating income  10.13% 10.04% 0.09% 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
124 
 2021 2020 Change Percentage 
Capitalized R&D expenses (RMB) 0.00 0.00 0.00% 
Capitalized R&D expenses as a 
percentage of R&D expenses 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 
Reason and effect of significant change in the composition of the Company's R&D personnel 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
 
Reason of significant change of total R&D expenses as a percentage of operating income as compared to last year  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
Reason and explanation of its reasonableness of significant change of the capitalized R&D expenses  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable  
 
5. Cash Flow  
Unit: RMB  
Item  2021 2020 YoY Change (%) 
Subtotal of cash inflows from 
operating activities  90,984,859,750.26 72,871,160,858.85 24.86% 
Subtotal of cash outflows from 
operating activities 78,276,335,063.27 56,783,004,292.18 37.85% 
Net cash flows from operating 
activities 12,708,524,686.99 16,088,156,566.67 -21.01% 
Subtotal of cash inflows from 
investing activities 6,370,051,168.33 1,904,368,743.55 234.50% 
Subtotal of cash outflows from 
investing activities 9,526,380,351.62 4,459,002,700.82 113.64% 
Net cash flows from investing 
activities -3,156,329,183.29 -2,554,633,957.27 -23.55% 
Subtotal of cash inflows from 
financing activities 6,123,487,832.52 7,057,371,569.92 -13.23% 
Subtotal of cash outflows from 
financing activities 15,914,985,474.12 11,617,474,855.16 36.99% 
Net cash flows from financing 
activities -9,791,497,641.60 -4,560,103,285.24 -114.72% 
Net increase in cash and cash 
equivalents -420,893,449.11 8,509,169,869.91 -104.95% 
Explanation of why the related data varied significantly on a YoY basis 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
The main reason for the change in net cash flow from operating activities was the increased expenditure on stocking 
during the reporting period ; the main reason for the change in net cash flow from invest ing activities was the 
purchase of long-term assets and the increase in external equity investment  during the reporting period; the main 
reason for the change in net cash flow from financing activities was mainly due to the net outflow of borrowings 
and the increase in dividend distribution during the reporting period. 
 
Explanation of reasons leading to the material difference between cash flow from operating activities during the 
reporting period and net profit for the year  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
125 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
 
IV. Non-core Business Analysis  
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
V. Analysis of Assets and Liabilities 
1. Material changes of asset items 
 
Unit：RMB 
 
December 31st 2021 January 1st 2021 
YoY 
Change 
(%) 
Note of significant change 
Amount 
Percentage 
of total 
assets 
Amount 
Percentage 
of total 
assets 
Cash and bank balances 34,721,870,931.36 33.43% 35,459,729,108.27 39.82% -6.39% No significant change 
Accounts receivable 26,174,773,100.42 25.20%  22,056,067,917.79   24.77% 0.43% No significant change 
Contract assets  1,411,372,624.91 1.36% 319,404,544.10 0.36% 1.00% Operating income of 
constructions increased 
Inventories 17,974,112,407.60 17.31% 11,477,906,040.70 12.89% 4.42% Increase in sales led to 
increased stocking 
Long-term equity 
investment 
982,165,546.45 0.95% 864,026,710.23 0.97% -0.02% No significant change 
Fixed assets 6,695,590,671.27 6.45% 5,830,677,198.85 6.55% -0.10% No significant change 
Construction in process 2,323,336,098.68 2.24% 1,425,235,193.72 1.60% 0.64% 
Increase in construction 
investments on Science 
and Technology Parks in 
various locations 
Right-of-use assets 566,393,672.75 0.55% 392,997,553.30 0.44% 0.11% Increase in rental of 
buildings  Lease liabilities  317,951,879.21 0.31% 230,055,273.70 0.26% 0.05% 
Short-term borrowings 4,074,962,469.97 3.92% 3,999,246,634.59 4.49% -0.57% No significant change 
Contract liabilities 2,580,894,226.59 2.48% 2,161,166,671.26 2.43% 0.05% No significant change 
Long-term borrowings 3,284,371,642.52 3.16% 1,961,167,761.30 2.20% 0.96% Decrease in project 
borrowings Non-current liabilities 
due within one year 596,915,360.58 0.57% 3,644,798,414.28 4.09% -3.52% 
High proportion of overseas assets 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
126 
2. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB 
Item Opening balance 
Profit or loss 
from change in 
fair value 
during the 
period 
Difference 
on 
translation 
of financial 
statements 
dominated 
in foreign 
currency 
Provision 
for 
decline in 
value 
during the 
current 
period 
Purchased 
amount 
during the 
period 
Sales 
during 
the 
period 
Other changes Closing balance 
Financial assets 
1. Derivative 
financial 
assets 
22,679,846.77 11,711,591.07 -71,427.01      34,320,010.83  
2. Other non-
current 
financial 
assets 
491,939,067.27 -53,214,895.05       438,724,172.22  
3. Receivables 
for 
financing 
1,959,601,195.25       -643,566,073.19  1,316,035,122.06 
Subtotal of 
financial assets 2,474,220,109.29 -41,503,303.98 -71,427.01    -643,566,073.19  1,789,079,305.11 
Financial 
Liabilities 
7,405,771.15 3,303,279.51 -40,174.07      4,062,317.57  
Whether there were any material changes on the measurement attributes of major assets of the Company during the 
reporting period:  
□ Yes √ No  
3. Assets right restrictions as of the end of reporting period  
Unit: RMB 
Item  Closing Book Value (RMB) Reasons for being restricted  
Cash and bank balances 117,926,502.16 Various cash deposits and other restricted funds 
Notes receivable 711,238,103.83 Endorsed to suppliers 
Receivables for financing 4,337,929.69 Pledge for issuance of bank’s acceptance bills  
Accounts receivable 197,358,387.51 Pledge for long-term debts 
Contract assets 104,842,914.69 Pledge for long-term debts 
Intangible assets 62,497,900.00 Pledge for long-term debts 
Other non-current assets 1,667,721,944.32 Pledge for long-term debts 
right-of-use assets  23,923,145.37  Fixed assets leased under finance leases 
Total  2,889,846,827.57  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
127 
VI. Investments 
1. Overview 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable 
 
2. Significant equity investment during the current reporting period 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
Investment in 2021 (RMB)  Investment in 2020 (RMB) YoY (%) 
2,534,882,042.80 2,666,845,621.23 -4.95% 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
128 
3. Significant non-equity investment during the current reporting period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB 
Project name 
Invest 
method 
Fixed assets 
investment or 
not 
Project 
industry 
Investment 
during the 
current 
reporting period 
Cumulative amount 
of investment by the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Source 
of funds 
Project schedule 
Reasons 
for not 
reaching 
planned 
progress 
and 
expected 
benefits 
Disclosure Date 
(if applicable)  
Disclosure Index (if applicable)  
Chengdu Science and 
Technology Park Project 
Self-
built  Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
374,660,696.76 896,287,490.09 
Self-
fund 
45.52% None 
September 23rd 
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Chengdu Science 
and Technology Park Project in 
Chengdu (No. 2017-033) 
Chongqing Science and 
Technology Park 
Project-Phase II 
Self-
built  Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
175,974,725.06 425,784,975.85 
Self-
fund 
100.00% None 
September 23rd 
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Chongqing 
Science and Technology Park 
Project in Chongqing (No. 2017-
035) 
Hangzhou Innovation 
Industry Park  
Self-
built  Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
55,489,079.67 393,310,782.16 
Specific 
Loan 
38.33% None 
September 23rd 
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Hangzhou 
Innovation Industry Park Project 
in Hangzhou (No. 2017-034) 
Security Industrial Base 
(Tonglu) - Phase II 
Continued Construction 
Self-
built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
315,975,312.09 390,702,241.74 
Self-
fund 
45.91% None 
October 16th 
2014 
Announcement on Investment and 
establishment of a wholly-owned 
subsidiary in Tonglu and new 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
129 
Project name 
Invest 
method 
Fixed assets 
investment or 
not 
Project 
industry 
Investment 
during the 
current 
reporting period 
Cumulative amount 
of investment by the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Source 
of funds 
Project schedule 
Reasons 
for not 
reaching 
planned 
progress 
and 
expected 
benefits 
Disclosure Date 
(if applicable)  
Disclosure Index (if applicable)  
Project services construction of Hikvision Security 
Industrial Base (Tonglu) Project 
(2014-044) 
Xi’an Science and 
Technology Park 
Project 
Self-
built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
168,330,152.28 181,009,327.21 
Self-
fund 
7.95% None 
September 23 rd 
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Xi’an Science and 
Technology Park in Xi’an (2017-
031) 
EZVIZ Industrial Base 
(Infrastructure Part) 
Self-
built Yes 
Smart 
home 
business 
92,990,105.25 95,322,172.33 
Self-
fund 
12.67% None - - 
Shijiazhuang Science 
and Technology Park 
Project 
Self-
built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
98,124,086.75 100,184,640.21 
Self-
fund 
11.16% None 
March 22 nd  
2018 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Shijiazhuang 
Science and Technology Park in 
Shijiazhuang (2018-016) 
Security Industrial 
Base (Tonglu) Phase 
III 
Self-
built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
48,109,601.71 48,768,905.95 
Self-
fund 
6.33% None - - 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
130 
Project name 
Invest 
method 
Fixed assets 
investment or 
not 
Project 
industry 
Investment 
during the 
current 
reporting period 
Cumulative amount 
of investment by the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Source 
of funds 
Project schedule 
Reasons 
for not 
reaching 
planned 
progress 
and 
expected 
benefits 
Disclosure Date 
(if applicable)  
Disclosure Index (if applicable)  
Zhengzhou Science 
and Technology Park 
Project 
Self-
built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
28,500,043.29 42,029,452.82 
Self-
fund 
8.67% None - - 
Wuhan Intelligence 
Industry Park Project 
Self-
built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
19,234,593.60 21,605,140.49 
Self-
fund 
0.91% None 
September 23 rd 
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Wuhan 
Intelligence Industry Park in 
Wuhan (2017-036) 
Total -- -- -- 
1,377,388,396.
46 
2,595,005,128.85 -- -- 
-- 
-- -- 
Note: In accordance with the Company's Authorization Management System, EZVIZ Industrial Base project, Security Industrial Base (Tonglu) Phase III project and 
Zhengzhou Science and Technology Park project were approved by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. 
4. Financial asset investment 
(1) Securities Investments  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There no such case in the reporting period. 
 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
131 
(2) Derivatives Investments 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: 0,000 RMB  
Operation 
party of 
derivatives 
investment 
Whether 
Related 
party 
Whether 
related 
transaction 
Type of 
derivatives 
investment 
Initial investment 
amount of 
derivatives 
investment 
Initial 
date 
Termination 
date 
Opening 
investment 
amount 
Purchased 
amount during 
the reporting 
period 
Sold 
amount 
during 
the 
reporting 
period 
Impairment 
provisions 
(if any) 
Closing 
investment 
amount 
Proportion 
of closing 
investment 
amount to 
the 
Company’s 
net assets 
at the end 
of the 
reporting 
period 
Actual gain or 
loss during 
the reporting 
period 
Commercial 
bank 
No No 
foreign 
exchange 
contract 
351,670.38 
October 
21st 
2020 
August 
30th 2024 
351,670.38 693,947.52   205,031.34 3.14% 11,360.81 
Total 351,670.38 -- -- 351,670.38 693,947.52   205,031.34 3.14% 11,360.81 
Capital source of derivatives investment Company’s own fund 
Prosecution (if applicable) Inapplicable 
Announcement date for approvals of 
derivatives investment from the Board of 
Directors (if any) 
April 17th 2021 
Announcement date for approvals of 
derivatives investment from the general 
meeting of shareholders (if any) 
Inapplicable 
Risk analysis and control measures For details of the risk analysis and control measures, please refer to the Announcement on Conducting Foreign Exchange Hedging Transactions in 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
132 
(including but not limited to, market risk, 
liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk, 
legal risk, etc.) of holding derivatives during 
the reporting period 
2021 (NO. 2021-030) dated April 17th 2021 of the Company 
Change of market price or fair value of 
invested derivatives during the reporting 
period; specific methods, related 
assumptions and parameter setting of the 
derivatives’ fair value analysis should be 
disclosed 
The Company carried out recognition and measurement in accordance with the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises Article 22 - 
Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments, Chapter VII "Determination of Fair Value". During the reporting period, a total of RMB 
15.01 million of gains from changes in fair value of derivatives were recognized, and the fair value is determined according to the exchange rate 
and interest rate provided by banks and other pricing service institutions, measured and recognized on a monthly basis. 
During the current reporting period, whether 
there was significant changes of accounting 
policies and accounting principles of the 
Company’s derivatives comparing to the 
prior reporting period 
Inapplicable 
Specific opinions on the Company’s 
derivatives investments and risk control 
from independent directors 
The relevant approval procedures for the Company ’s foreign exchange hedging business complies with the relevant national laws and regulations 
and the relevant provisions of the Articles of Association. The Company has established a sound process for the organization, business operation 
and approval for conducting foreign exchange hedging business, as well as the Foreign Exchange Hedging Management System. Under the premise 
of ensuring normal production and operation, the Company conducts foreign exchange hedging business, which enables the Company to avoid and 
prevent sharp exchange rate fluctuations and its adverse effects on the Company’s operations, and contributes to controlling foreign exchange risks. 
There is no damage to the interests of the Company nor of its shareholders. 
5. Use of raised funds  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
During the reporting period, there was no use of raised fund 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
133 
VII. Disposal of Significant Assets and Equity 
1. Disposal of significant assets:  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no disposal of significant asset for the Company during the current reporting period.  
2. Sale of significant equity: 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
134 
VIII. Analysis of Major Subsidiaries and Holding Companies 
Information about obtaining and disposal of subsidiaries during the reporting period  
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Company name 
Equity acquisition and disposal 
method during the reporting period 
Impact on overall production results 
Daishan Hailai Yunzhi Technology Co., Ltd. Change in voting rights Business development 
EQUIPOS PROFESIONALES DE 
COMUNICACIÓN S.A. DE C.V. 
Transfer of equity in cash Expand overseas sales channels 
SISTEMAS Y SERVICIOS DE COMUNICACIÓN, 
S.A. DE C.V. 
Transfer of equity in cash Expand overseas sales channels 
Shanghe Smart City Technology Co., Ltd. Cash contribution Business development 
Chongqing EZVIZ Electronics Co., Ltd. Cash contribution Business development 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Automation Co., Ltd. Cash contribution Business development 
Hangzhou Haina Y uzhi Entrepreneurship Investment 
Partnership Co., Ltd. 
Cash contribution Business development 
Hikvision Chile SpA Cash contribution Expand overseas sales channels 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Technology Co., Ltd. 
Releasing the entrustment 
agreement 
Reorganization 
Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Liquidation & cancellation Reorganization 
Secure Holding Limited Liquidation & cancellation Reorganization 
Guangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. Liquidation & cancellation Reorganization 
Hikvision Joint-Stock Company 
(Original name: ZAO Hikvision) 
Liquidation & cancellation Reorganization 
IX. Structural Entities Controlled by the Company 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
X. Outlook for the Future Development of the Company 
1. Development Trends for the Industry 
AIoT is a fundamental capability that provides the possibility of connection and interaction between people 
and things as well as between things.  This is happening right now, with a huge impact on the way decisions are 
made. Boasting a trillion RMB-level market potential, AIoT will set off a wave of technological innovation that will 
sweep across thousands of industries with unprecedented changes. 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
135 
Proceeding from industrial businesses based on large -scale scenarios, the company has made abundant 
preparations in many aspects such as supporting technologies, software and hardware products, system capabilities, 
business organization and marketing systems that related to AIoT. We are confident that Hikvision will be able to 
seize the opportunities brought by the rapid development of AIoT.  
 
2. Development strategy of the company 
In the future, Hikvision is committed to serving various industries through its cutting -edge technologies of 
machine perception, artificial intelligence, and big  data, leading the future of AIo T：Through comprehensive 
machine perception technologies, we aim to help people better connect with the world around them; With a wealth 
of intelligent products, we strive to identify and satisfy diverse demands by delivering intelligence at your fingertips; 
Through innovative AIoT applications, we are dedicated to empowering every individual to enjoy a better future by 
building an intelligent world that is more convenient, efficient and secure. 
 
3. Key priorities in 2022 
(1) Continuously investing in R&D to preserve advantages in technical and product R&D. 
(2) Firmly implement business strategies and seize more business opportunities. 
(3) Continue to expand city -based business layout in Chinese, promote the differentiated layout of “One 
Country, One Policy” in overseas, and optimize the coordination an d division of responsibilities between the 
headquarters and regional centers. 
(4) Expand the scale of innovative businesses, pursuing better market positions in their respective segments, 
and strengthen the cooperation between core business and new innovative businesses.  
(5) Strengthen the coordination of R&D, production and sales, and maintain prudent supply chain management 
to ensure supply chain security. 
(6) Promote the integration and mutual promotion of the Company’s organizational framework, improve  
operational efficiency, and give full play to the advantages of economies of scale. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
136 
XI. Reception of Activities including Research, Communication and Interviews during the 
Report Period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Time of 
reception 
Location of 
reception 
Method of 
reception 
Type of 
reception 
object 
Reception object 
The main content of 
the discussion and 
the information 
provided 
Index of basic situation of the 
research 
December 
22nd 2020 – 
January 11th 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
106 investors 
including China 
Asset 
Management-
Zhang Fan, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From 
December 22nd 2020 to 
January 11th 2021 
January 12th 
2021 – 
January 29th 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
138 investors 
including 
Huachuang 
Securities-Meng 
Can, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From 
January 12th 2021 to January 
29th 2021 
February 1st 
2021 – March 
2nd 2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
56 investors 
including Haitong 
Securities-Wang 
Jing, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From 
February 1st 2021 to March 
2nd 2021 
March 3rd 
2021 – March 
17th 2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
145 investors 
including Orient 
Securities-Kuai 
Jian, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From March 
3rd 2021 to March 17th 2021 
April 17th 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Performance 
result 
conference call 
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
928 investors 
including E-fund 
Management-Ni 
Chunyao, etc. 
The Company's 
operations in 2020 
and the first quarter 
of 2021 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: April 17th 
2021 
April 18th 
2021 – April 
30th 2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
220 investors 
including Ping An 
Fund 
Management-Zhu 
Chunyu, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From April 
18th 2021 to April 30th 2021 
May 10th 2021 
– May 21st 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
95 investors 
including Bosera 
Asset 
Management-
Chen Pengyang, 
etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From May 
10th 2021 to May 21st 2021 
May 24th 2021 Headquarters Site Research Institutional 79 investors The Company's CNINF, Investor Relations 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
137 
Time of 
reception 
Location of 
reception 
Method of 
reception 
Type of 
reception 
object 
Reception object 
The main content of 
the discussion and 
the information 
provided 
Index of basic situation of the 
research 
– June 11th 
2021 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
and telephone 
communication 
investors including Orient 
Securities Asset 
Management-
Zhang Mingyu, 
etc. 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
Activity Record: From May 
24th 2021 to June 11th 2021 
June 15th 2021 
– June 25th 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
39 investors 
including 
Shenwan 
Hongyuan Asset 
Management-Qin 
Qing, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From June 
15th 2021 to June 25th 2021 
July 24th 2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Performance 
result 
conference call 
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
908 investors 
including Essence 
Fund-Chen 
Zhenyu, etc. 
The Company's 
operations in the 
first half of 2021 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: July 24th 
2021 
July 26th 2021 
– August 6th 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
136 investors 
including 
Perseverance 
Asset 
Management-
Zhang Jifeng, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From July 
26th 2021 to August 6th 2021 
August 9th 
2021 – August 
27th 2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
84 investors 
including Taikang 
Asset 
Management-Li 
Xiaojin, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From August 
9th 2021 to August 27th 2021 
August 30th 
2021 – 
September 
17th 2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
68 investors 
including Yinhua 
Fund 
Management-Du 
Yu, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From August 
30th 2021 to September 17th 
2021 
October 23rd 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Performance 
result 
conference call 
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
620 investors 
including ICBC 
Credit Suisse-
Yang Ke, etc. 
The Company's 
operations in the 
third quarter of 2021 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: October 23rd 
November 
15th 2021 – 
December 3rd 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
39 investors 
including Fullgoal 
Fund-Zhou 
Zongzhou, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From 
November 15th 2021 to 
December 3rd 2021 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
138 
Time of 
reception 
Location of 
reception 
Method of 
reception 
Type of 
reception 
object 
Reception object 
The main content of 
the discussion and 
the information 
provided 
Index of basic situation of the 
research 
December 14th 
2021 – 
December 31st 
2021 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
37 investors 
including 
Tianhong Fund-
Zhang Tao, etc. 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From 
December 14th 2021 to 
December 31st 2021 
 
  
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
139 
Section IV Corporate Governance 
I. Basic Situation of Corporate Governance 
Since the inception of the Company, we have been strictly following relevant laws and regulations such as the 
“Company Law”, “Securities Law”, “Code of Corporate Governance of Liste d Companies”, “Rules Governing 
the Listing of Shares on Shenzhen Stock Exchange”,  and “Shenzhen Stock Exchange Listed Companies Self -
Regulatory Supervision Guidelines No. 1 - Standardized Operation of Main Board Listed Companies”  as well as 
the requirements of the regulations and regulatory documents of the regulatory authorities, through continuous 
improvement of the “3+1” corporate governance structure comprising shareholders’ meeting, the Board of Directors, 
the Board of Supervisors, and the management taking into consideration the actual situation of the Company, and 
strictly follow the principle of disclosing information in a true, accurate, complete, timely and impartial manner; we 
have also established and improved internal management and control system, promoted the standardized operation 
of the Company and ensured the legitimate rights and interests of the Company and investors. During the reporting 
period, the basic details of corporate governance is as follows: 
1. Shareholders and shareholders’ meeting 
We have ensured the equal status and full rights for all shareholders, especially small and medium shareholders. 
During the reporting period, the Company held a total of 3 general meetings of shareholders, all of which were 
convened by the Company 's Board of Directors , and witnessed by lawyers on -site with legal opinions issued. 
Proposals were reviewed in compliance with legal procedures to ensure that all shareholders have the right to know, 
participate, and vote on major issues of the Company and to fully exercise their legal rights. 
2. The controlling shareholders and listed company 
The Company ’s controlling shareholders had no improper conduct and have never directly or indirectly 
interfered with the Company’s decision-making and operating activi ties overriding shareholders’ meeting. There 
are no such cases that controlling shareholders occupy the Company's funds or the Company provides guarantees 
for controlling shareholders. The Company, with its own complete business system and management capab ilities, 
has been independent of controlling shareholders in terms of business, personnel, assets, organizations, and finances. 
The Company's Board of Directors, Board of Supervisors and internal institutions has been operating separately to 
ensure that major company decisions are made and implemented by the Company. 
3. Directors and the Board of Directors 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
140 
The Company's Board of Directors, operating in a normalized way, has performed its functions invested by the 
“Articles of Association ” and relevant laws and regulations, and implemented the relevant decisions of the 
shareholders’ meeting. The number and composition of the Company 's Board of Directors  comply with the 
requirements of laws and regulations. There are four committees for strategy, audit, nomination, remuneration and 
appraisal under it. Each committee has a clear division of labor, clear powers and responsibilities, and effective 
operation. All directors of the Company  have performed their duties with integrity, loyalty, diligence, 
professionalism and due diligence, and earnestly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of the Company and 
shareholders with a view to the interests of the Company  and shareholders.  The independent directors of the 
Company performed their duties independently and unaffected in accordance with the " Rules for Independent 
Directors of Listed Companies " and other relevant regulations, attend ed the Company's Board of Directors  and 
shareholders' general meetings, and expressed their independent opinions on matters involving the interests of small 
and medium investors such as related transactions and external guarantees, which ensured the standardized 
operation of the Company. 
During the reporting period, the Company convened 9 board meetings, reviewed and approved 84 proposals 
including the “Annual Report 2020 and its Summary”, “Proposal on the Initial Public Share Offering and Listing 
on the STAR Market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange of the Subsidiary, Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd”, “2021 
Restricted Stock Plan (Revised Draft) and its Summary” and “Proposal on Authorizing the Company's Management 
to Start the Spin-off for the Preliminary Preparations for Listing on the Domestic Stock Markets of the Subsidiary, 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd..”, etc. 
4. Supervisors and Board of Supervisors 
The number and composition of the Company’s Board of Supervisors  meet the requirements of laws and 
regulations; the Company’s supervisors have diligently performed their duties and obligations, and carried out 
supervision and inspection functions being responsible to shareholders, and supervised the Company’s financial 
status, operating conditions and related transactions, and the performance of duties by directors and senior managers 
to fully protect the legal rights and interests of the Company and all shareholders. 
During the reporting period, the Company held 9 Board of Supervisors’ meetings, reviewed and approved 40 
proposals including the "2021 Restricted Stock Scheme (Revised Draft) and its Summary" and " Participant List of 
the 2021 Restricted Stock Scheme ", and to verify the participant list specified in the "2021 Restricted Stock Scheme 
(Revised Draft)". It concludes that the participants listed in the restricted stock scheme are qualified according to 
relevant laws, regulations and normative documents such as the "Measures for the Management of Equity Incentives 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
141 
of Listed Companies", and are within the scope of the participants specified in the Company's 2021 restricted stock 
scheme, and their qualifications as the participants in the 2021 restricted stock scheme are legal and effective, which 
is conductive to the effective performance of the responsibilities of the Board of Supervisors. 
5. Performance appraisal and incentive and restraint mechanism 
The Company  has established a complete performance appraisal syst em and remuneration system. The 
appointment procedures for senior management personnel are open and transparent, and comply with relevant laws 
and regulations. The remuneration and appraisal committee under the Company's Board of Directors is responsible 
for performance appraisal of the Company 's senior management at the end of the year to determine their 
remuneration. To further set up and improve the Company’s incentive mechanism and strengthen the concept of 
sustainable development of both the Company and employees, the Company has adopted a restricted share scheme 
and the plan of core staff’s co-investment into innovation business to achieve its development strategy and business 
objectives, and realize sustainable health development.  
6. Information disclosure and transparency 
The Company  has strictly followed the relevant laws and regulations and the “Company Information 
Disclosure Management Measures” to disclose relevant information truthfully, accurately, completely, timely and 
impartially, and thoroughly implemented the “Company Information Insider Registration Management System” to 
register insiders and file to further standardize inside information management and to ensure that all shareholders 
and other stakeholders of the Company have equal access to company information. During the reporting period, the 
Company disclosed 4 periodic reports and 78 temporary announcements. The Company's information disclosure 
has been recognized by the regulatory authorities: the Company has been rated as Level A by the Shenzhen Stock 
Exchange for 11 consecutive years in the main board listed company information disclosure assessment. 
7. Continue to improve the internal management system 
In accordance with the latest revisions of relevant laws, administrative regulati ons and normative documents 
such as the “ Company Law” and the “ Securities Law”, the Company revised the “ Rules of Procedure for the 
General Meeting of Shareholders”, the “Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors”, the “Work Regulations for 
the Independent Directors” and other internal management systems based on the actual situation of the Company 
during the reporting period. The Company strengthened the internal management, further improved the corporate 
governance structure, promote d the Compa ny's compliance operation, and protect ed the legitima te rights and 
interests of the Company and shareholders. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
142 
8. Investor relations activities 
The Company has proactively organized performance briefings after the disclosure of regular reports, held 
investor reception activities to actively listen to investors’ opinions and suggestions, and released the “ Investor 
Relations Activity Record” after the event to ensure fair access to company information by all investors. In daily 
work, the Company has kept in touch with investors through multiple channels such as telephone, e -mail, and 
irm.cninfo.com.cn to effectively interact and communicate with investors. The Company’s investor relations efforts 
have been recognized by the capital market through  the following awards: “Top 100 Chinese Main Board Listed 
Companies” in the 15th China’s Most Valuable Listed Company Selection hosted by the Securities Times, “Top 50 
Companies of Market Value” in the Wind 2021 Listed Company Market Value Ranking, “Top 5 Companies in 
Technology Hardware and Equipment Industry”, “Top 50 Most Popular Listed Companies Ranked by Institutions”, 
“Top 50 A-share Companies in the Hot List by Institutional Research” by Wind, “Top 100 Companies with High 
Quality Development” in the 2021 China’s Listed Company with High Quality Development Selection hosted by 
Yinshi Finance and Economics, “Outstanding Company with Investment Value for the Year” and “Listed Company 
Most Preferred at Public Offerings for the Year” in the 2021 Jing Luan Award for Chinese Listed Companies hosted 
by JHB show. 
 
Any significant incompliance for the laws, administrative regulations and the relevant regulatory documents 
issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission in respect of the Company’s corporate governance: 
□ Yes √ No 
There is no significant incompliance for the laws, administrative regulations and the relevant regulatory 
documents issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission in respect of the Company’s corporate governance. 
 
II. Company’s Independ ence in Assets, Personnel, Finance s, Organizations and Businesses 
from Controlling Shareholders and Actual Controller  
The Company is completely independent in business, personnel, assets, organizations, and finance s from its 
shareholders. The Company  has established a sound internal control system, being capable of operating 
independently with its complete and independent business. 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
143 
(1) Business independence: The Company has own production, purchases and sales systems, which are 
completely independent from controlling shareholders. Therefore, there is no competition among the 
Company, controlling shareholders, and related parties. 
(2) Personnel independence: The Company has independent personnel. The management has set up 
various independent departments, including R&D, production, administration, finance and operation 
management divisions, etc., and established complete management methods for labor, personnel, and 
salary management. Personnel of the Company is independent from controlling shareholders, e.g. the 
chairman is elected through the general meetings of the Board. In addition, the general manager, senior 
deputy general managers, the s ecretary of the Board, CFO, and other s enior management personnel 
of the Company are only employed and remunerated by the Company, and do not hold any position 
in controlling shareholders and is not remunerated by controlling shareholders. Directors, supervisors 
and senior management personnel are appointed through legal procedures strictly in accordance with 
relevant regulations stipulated in Company Law and Articles of Association. There is no controlling 
shareholder intervention in the Company’s personnel decisions in general meetings of the Board or 
shareholders. 
(3) Asset Completeness: The property rights of assets are explicitly between the Company and the 
controlling shareholders, and no assets, funds, or other resources owned by the Company are illegally 
and irregularly occupied or controlled  by the controlling shareholders. Assets of the Company are 
integrated, including complete property rights of fixed assets for production, supporting assets for 
production, and intangible assets of patents, etc. The Company has the full control and ownership of 
all assets.    
(4) Independence in organizations: The Company ’s Board  of Directors , Board of Supervisor, 
management and other internal organizations operate independently, and each functional department 
is independent from controlling shareholders in duty and personnel. There is no superior-subordinate 
relation between functional departments of controlling shareholders and those of the Company, which 
would have an impact on the Company’s independent operations.  
(5) Financial Independence: The Company has established an independent financial department, as well 
as a sound and independent financial and accounting system. The Company makes financial decisions 
independently. There is a standardized financial accounting system and a financial management 
system for the Company ’s branches and subsidiaries,  and there is no controlling shareholder 
intervention in the Company ’s financial and accounting activities. The Company  has maintained 
accounts with banks independently of and do not  share any bank account with our Controlling 
Shareholders. The Company  has undertaken independent tax registration in accordance with 
applicable laws, and paid tax independently. 
III. Horizontal Competition 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
144 
IV. Annual General Me eting and Extraordinary General Meetings Convened during the 
Reporting Period 
1. General Meetings Convened during the Reporting Period 
Meeting Nature 
Proportion 
of 
participating 
investors  
Convened Date Disclosure Date Resolution of the Meeting  
The 1st Extraordinary General 
Meeting of Shareholders in 
2021 
Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
of Shareholders 
70.0131% March 5th 2021 March 6th 2021 
9 proposals including the 
Proposal on Election of 
Non-Independent Directors 
of the 5th Session of the 
Board of Directors were 
reviewed and voted. For 
details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: 
No. 2021-020. 
2020 Annual General Meeting 
Annual General 
Meeting 
70.2837% May 14th 2021  May 15th 2021  
20 proposals including the 
2020 Annual Report and 
Summary were reviewed 
and voted. For details, 
please refer to the 
Company's announcement: 
No. 2021-039. 
The 2nd Extraordinary General 
Meeting of Shareholders in 
2021 
Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
of Shareholders 
69.1732% 
September 27th 
2021 
September 28th 2021 
10 proposals including the 
Proposal on the spin-off of 
the Company’s subsidiary 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network 
Co., Ltd. to be listed on the 
Science and Technology 
Innovation Board in 
compliance with relevant 
laws and regulations were 
reviewed and voted. For 
details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: 
No. 2021-058. 
2. Extraordinary General Meetings Convened at the Request of Preferred Shareholders with Resumed 
Voting Rights:  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
145 
V. Information about Directors, Supervisors, Senior Management  
1. Basic Situation 
Name Title Tenure status Gender Age Commencement of 
term of office  
Termination of 
term of office 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the Period 
(Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares 
decreased 
during the 
Period 
(Shares) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for increase 
or decrease of shares 
Chen 
Zongnian Chairman Incumbent Male 57 June 19th 2008 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
Qu Liyang Director Incumbent Male 58 March 7th 2018 March 4th 2024 15,750 0 0 15,750 -- 
Wang 
Qiuchao Director Incumbent Male 71 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 35,000 0 0 35,000 -- 
Hu 
Yangzhong 
Director, 
General Manager 
(CEO) 
Incumbent Male 57 December 28th 2001 March 4th 2024 182,186,477 0 26,940,000 155,246,477 
Personal financial 
needs 
Wu Weiqi 
Director, 
Standing Deputy 
General Manager 
Incumbent Male 58 March 1st 2003 March 4th 2024 11,371,389 0 2,740,300 8,631,089 
Personal financial 
needs 
Wu Xiaobo Independent 
Director 
Incumbent Male 62 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
Hu Ruimin Independent 
Director Incumbent Male 58 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
Li Shuhua Independent 
Director Incumbent Male 51 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
146 
Name Title Tenure status Gender Age Commencement of 
term of office  
Termination of 
term of office 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the Period 
(Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares 
decreased 
during the 
Period 
(Shares) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for increase 
or decrease of shares 
Guan 
Qingyou 
Independent 
Director Incumbent Male 45 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
Hong 
Tianfeng 
Supervisor 
Chairman Incumbent Male 56 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
Xu Lirong Supervisor Incumbent Male 59 March 21st 2018 March 4th 2024 303,000 0 0 303,000 -- 
Lu 
Jianzhong Supervisor Incumbent Male 68 March 5th 2021 March 4th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
He Hongli Senior Deputy 
General Manager Incumbent Female 49 December 18th 2005 March 11th 2024 331,500 0 0 331,500 -- 
Cai 
Changyang 
Senior Deputy 
General Manager Incumbent Male 51 April 8th 2016 March 11th 2024 109,500 0 0 109,500 -- 
Xu Ximing Senior Deputy 
General Manager Incumbent Male 49 October 11th 2016 March 11th 2024 197,000 0 0 197,000 -- 
Bi Huijuan Senior Deputy 
General Manager Incumbent Female 51 October 11th 2016 March 11th 2024 273,000 0 0 273,000 -- 
Pu Shiliang Senior Deputy 
General Manager Incumbent Male 45 March 21st 2018 March 11th 2024 295,900 0 0 295,900 -- 
Jin Duo Senior Deputy 
General Manager Incumbent Male 57 March 10th 2015 March 11th 2024 109,500 0 0 109,500 -- 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
147 
Name Title Tenure status Gender Age Commencement of 
term of office  
Termination of 
term of office 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the Period 
(Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares 
decreased 
during the 
Period 
(Shares) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for increase 
or decrease of shares 
Jin Yan 
Senior Deputy 
General Manager, 
Person in charge 
of finance 
Incumbent Female 43 July 22nd 2015 March 11th 2024 284,000 0 0 284,000 -- 
Huang 
Fanghong 
Senior Deputy 
General Manager, 
Board Secretary 
Incumbent Female 40 April 8th 2016 March 11th 2024 402,500 0 0 402,500 -- 
Chen Junke 
Senior Deputy 
General Manager 
Incumbent Male 51 March 21st 2018 March 11th 2024 0 0 0 0 -- 
Xu Peng 
Senior Deputy 
General Manager 
Incumbent Male 46 March 12th 2021 March 11th 2024 128,740 0 51,496 77,244 
Personal financial 
needs 
Guo Xudong 
Senior Deputy 
General Manager 
Incumbent Male 50 March 12th 2021 March 11th 2024 73,800 0 29,520 44,280 
Personal financial 
needs 
Gong 
Hongjia Vice Chairman Resigned Male 57 June 19th 2008 March 5th 2021 1,016,614,814 0 54,110,000 962,504,814 
Personal financial 
needs 
Cheng 
Tianzong 
Independent 
Director Resigned Male 70 March 6th 2015 March 5th 2021 0 0 0 0 -- 
Wang 
Zhidong 
Independent 
Director Resigned Male 55 March 6th 2015 March 5th 2021 0 0 0 0 -- 
Cheng 
Huifang 
Supervisor 
Chairman Resigned Female 69 March 6th 2015 March 5th 2021 0 0 0 0 -- 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
148 
Name Title Tenure status Gender Age Commencement of 
term of office  
Termination of 
term of office 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the Period 
(Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares 
decreased 
during the 
Period 
(Shares) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for increase 
or decrease of shares 
Fu Baijun Senior Deputy 
General Manager Resigned Male 50 January 20th 2009 March 12th 2021 495,000 0 126,000 369,000 
Personal financial 
needs 
Jiang Yufeng Senior Deputy 
General Manager Resigned Male 51 December 18th 2005 March 12th 2021 325,500 0 0 325,500 -- 
Total -- -- -- -- -- -- 1,213,552,370 0 83,997,316 1,129,555,054 -- 
Note:  
(1) Number of shares held at the beginning of the period, shares increased during the period, shares decreased during the period for directors, supervisors, and senior 
management personnel above are all shares directly held by them accordingly, including restricted shares. 
(2) On March 5th 2021, Gong Hongjia resigned as a director of the Company at termination of term of office, Cheng Tianzong and Wang Zhidong resigned as 
independent directors of the Company at termination of term of office, Cheng huifang resigned as the board supervisor of the Company at termination of term of 
office. Wang Qiuchao was elected as a director of the Company's 5th session of the Board of Directors, Hong Tianfeng and Lu Jianzhong were elected as supervisors 
of the Company's 5th session of the Board of Supervisors. 
(3) On March 12th 2021, Gong Hongjia, Fu Baijun and Jiang Y ufeng resigned from the Company’s senior management position. Xu Lirong resigned from the 
Company’s person in charge of internal audit. 
  
Any resignation of directors or supervisors and dismissals of senior management personnel during their term of office during the reporting period. 
□Yes √No
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
149 
Change of directors, supervisors and senior management personnel 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
Name Position Types of change Date Reason 
Wang Qiuchao Director 
Appointment and 
dismissal 
March 5th 2021 General election 
Wu Xiaobo Independent Director Elected March 5th 2021 General election 
Hu Ruimin Independent Director Elected March 5th 2021 General election 
Li Shuhua Independent Director Elected March 5th 2021 General election 
Guan Qingyou Independent Director Elected March 5th 2021 General election 
Hong Tianfeng 
Chairman of the Board of 
Supervisors 
Appointment and 
dismissal 
March 5th 2021 General election 
Lu Jianzhong Supervisor 
Appointment and 
dismissal 
March 5th 2021 General election 
Gong Hongjia Director 
Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Cheng Tianzong Independent Director 
Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Lu Jianzhong Independent Director Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Wang Zhidong Independent Director Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Hong Tianfeng Independent Director 
Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Cheng Huifang Chairman of the Board of 
Supervisors 
Left the position after the 
expiry of her tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Wang Qiuchao Supervisor Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 5th 2021 Tenure expires 
Xu Peng 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Hired March 12th 2021 General appointment 
Guo Xudong 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Hired March 12th 2021 General appointment 
Gong Hongjia Vice Chairman 
Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 12th 2021 Tenure expires 
Fu Baijun 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 12th 2021 Tenure expires 
Jiang Yufeng 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Left the position after the 
expiry of his tenure 
March 12th 2021 Tenure expires 
 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
150 
2. Positions and Incumbency 
1) Directors 
Mr Chen Zongnian (陈宗年): Born in 1965, Chen holds a PhD of business administration and has served as deputy 
general manager of Shenzhen Gao  Ke Run Electronics, director and general manager of Zhejiang Haikang 
Information Technology Co., Ltd. and Zhejiang Haikang Group Co., Ltd. He also served as an assistant of the head, 
deputy head, and the head of 52 nd Research Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 
(hereinafter referred to as “ 52nd Research Institute”). Chen currently serves as the Chairman of China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd. (CETHIK), the Chairman of Phoenix Optics Co., Ltd. and the Chairman of the 
Company.  
 
Mr. Qu Liyang ( 屈力扬): Born in 1964, bachelor degree of engineering, researcher -level senior engineer. He 
served as the director, deputy director, party secretary and deputy director of the 52 nd Research Institute, and 
Chairman of the Board of Supervisors of CETHIK. He is currently a member of the Strategy Committee of China 
Electronic Technology Group Co., Ltd., director of the Science and Technology Innovation Committee of CETHIK, 
and a director of the Company. 
 
Mr. Wang Qiuchao (王秋潮): Born in 1951, master degree in law. Wang served as director of Zhejiang T&C Law 
Firm (浙江天册律师事务所), Chairman of the Zhejiang Lawyers Association (浙江省律师协会) , vice-president 
of the Zhejiang Law Society (浙江省法学会), and a supervisor of the Company. Wang currently serves as honorary 
partner of Zhejiang T &C Law Firm, arbitrator of the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration 
Commission (中国国际经济贸易仲裁委员会, “CIETAC”) , an arbitrator of Shanghai International Arbitration 
Center (上海国际仲裁中心) and Shenzhen International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission (深圳国际
仲裁中心), and a director of the Company.  
 
Mr. Hu Yangzhong (胡扬忠): Born in 1965, master degree of engineering, senior research engineer. He served as 
an engineer of the 52nd Research Institute from June 1989 to December 2001. He has been appointed as a director 
of the Company and general manager of the Company since December 2001. Hu currently serves as a director and 
the general manager of the Company. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
151 
Mr. Wu Weiqi (邬伟琪): Born in 1964, bachelor degree of engineering, senior engineer. Wu held various positions 
at the 52nd Research Institute, including technician, engineer associate, engineer and senior engineer, from July 1986 
to December 2001. Since November 2001, He has been appointed as a deputy general manager, a standing deputy 
general manager, and a director of Hikvision. Wu currently serves as a director and standing deputy general manager 
of the Company. 
 
Mr. Wu Xiaobo ( 吴晓波): Born in 1960, a PhD of business administration, Professor, Ph.D. Tutor. In February 
1982, he joined the Energy Saving Office of the Ministry of Forestry, Zhejiang Energy Conservation Technology 
Service Center, and joined the School of Management of Zhejiang University in July 1992, successively served as 
an executive vice dean and dean. He is currently the Director of the Department of Social Scienc es of Zhejiang 
University, the director of the National Philosophy and Social Science Innovation Base - Research on Innovation 
Management and Sustainable Competitiveness of Zhejiang University, the Chinese director of the Joint Research 
Center for Global Manufacturing and Innovation Management of Zhejiang Univer sity-Cambridge University, the 
co-director of the Ruihua Institute of Innovation Management, and an independent director of the Company. 
 
Mr. Hu Ruimin ( 胡瑞敏): Born in 1964, a PhD in engineering, Second -level Professor, doctoral tutor, Luojia 
distinguished scholar, recipient of Special Government Grants from the State Council, Senior Member of IEEE 
(Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers), fellow of China Institute of Communications, distinguished 
member of China Computer Federation. He has successively served as vice chairman of the Academic Committee 
of Wuhan University, d irector of the Nationa l Multimedia Software Engineeri ng Technology Research Center, 
director of Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of Multimedia Network Communication Engineering, First Executive 
Dean of National Cyber Security College and Dean of School of Computer Science of Wuh an University. From 
January 2010 to January 2016, he served as the first dean of Hikvision Research Institute. He is currently a professor 
of Wuhan University and an independent director of the Company. 
 
Mr. Li Shuhua ( 李树华)：Born in 1971, a PhD in accounting, non -practicing member of the China Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants, National-level candidates for the New Century Hundreds and Thousands of Talents 
Project, National Leading Talents in Accounting, and National Leading Talents in Shenzhen. He has successively 
served as deputy director of the Audit Division of the Accounting Department of the China Securities Regu latory 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
152 
Commission (presiding), deputy d irector of t he General Office (presiding), d irector of the Financ ial and Bu dget 
Management Department and d irector of the General Office, a member of the Executive Committee and Chief 
Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Compliance Officer of China Galaxy Securities Co., Ltd. He 
concurrently served as a PE pr ofessor and master’s tutor at the National Accounting Institute (Xiamen), Peking 
University, Shanghai Institute of Advanced Finance, Shanghai Jiaotong University, and Tsinghua University. He is 
currently the managing p artner of Shenzhen Oriental Fortune Ca pital Investment Management Co., Ltd. (OFC) , 
Chairman of Changzhou NRB Corporation  (常州光洋軸承股份有限公司 ), and an independent director of the 
Company. 
 
Mr. Guan Qingyou ( 管清友 ): Born in 1977, a holder of Ph.D. in economics, Young Economist. He has 
successively served as the former vice president of Minsheng Securities and the president of the research institute; 
He is currently the President and Chief Economist of the Institute of Finance, Vice President of the China Private 
Economic Research Association, Professor of the School of Economics of Hainan University, Chief Economist of 
Zhongguancun Private Equity & Venture Capital Association (ZVCA) and Guangdong Province Venture Capita l 
Association, and an independent director of the Company. 
 
Mr. Gong Hongjia ( 龚虹嘉): Born in 1965, Hong Kong permanent resident. Gong holds a bachelor degree of 
engineering, technology entrepreneur, and angel investor.  He has established and invested over 1 0 enterprises 
including TECSUN Co. Ltd., AsiaInfo Dekang, Funian Technology, and  Woqi Data, and etc. He took part in the 
establishment of the Company in November 2001 and served as a director (left after the expiry of his tenure on 
March 5th 2021) and vice chairman (left after the expiry of his tenure on March 12th 2021) of the Company.  
 
Mr. Cheng Tianzong (程天纵): Born in 1952, Taiwanese, master degree in business administration. Cheng served 
as president and a director of Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. (China) from 1992 to 1997; served as 
the president of the Asia Pacific of Texas Instruments Incorporated (德州仪器) from 1997 to 2007; served as a vice-
president of Hon g Hai Corporation ( 鸿海集团) from July 2007 to 2012, and the chief execut ive officer of FIH 
Mobile Limited, a subsidiary of Hon g Hai Corporation ( 鸿海集团), a company listed on the Hong Kong Stock 
Exchange in 2011. He retired in June 2012 and devoted himself to China Maker Campaign (中国创客运动) to help 
and guide those start-up companies in September 2013. Cheng served as an independent director of the Company 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
153 
(left after the expiry of his tenure on March 5th 2021) 
 
Mr. Wang Zhidong (王志东): Born in 1967, Hong Kong permanent resident, bachelor degree of science. He served 
as a deputy general manager and chief engineer of Beijing Haidian District Suntendy Electronic Technology 
Research Institute ( 北京海淀区新天地电子信息技术研究所) from April 1992 to August 1993; He served as a 
general manager of Beijing Richwin Information Technology Co., Ltd. (四通利方信息技术有限公司), and served 
as chief executive officer and a director of SINA Corporation ( 新浪网) from December 1993 to June 2001; He 
served as chairman and chief executive officer of Beijing Dianji Technology, Ltd. (北京点击科技有限公司) from 
December 2001 to July 2013. Mr. Wang has served as an independent director of the Company (left after the expiry 
of his tenure on March 5 th 2021). He currently serves as chairman and chief executive officer of Beijing 
Yilianyisheng Techonology Co. Ltd.(北京易连忆生科技有限公司). 
2) Supervisors 
Mr. Hong Tianfeng (洪天峰): Born in 1966, master degree in engineering. Hong was an engineer in Nanjing 
University of Posts and Telecommunication ( 南京邮电大学 ) from July 1990 to June 1993; He served as an 
executive deputy general manager, chief executive of Operation and D elivery, chairman of investment decision 
committee, and vice chairman of Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. (华为技术有限公司) from July 1993 to September 
2011. Hong has served as an independent director of the Company. Hong currently serves as a managing partner of 
Suzhou Fangguang Venture Investment Management (Limited Partnership)(苏州方广创业投资管理合伙企业 （有
限合伙）), an executive director of Shanghai Fangguang Venture Investment Management Co., Ltd. (上海方广创
业投资管理有限公司), and supervisor of the Company. 
 
Mr. Lu Jianzhong (陆建忠): Born in 1954, holds bachelor degree in economics and CPA certificate. Lu served as 
a lecturer and an associate professor of finance and accounting department at Shanghai Maritime University (上海
海事大学) from September 1986 to September 1997; he was a CPA and a partner  of the auditing department of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, from October 1997 to June 2012; he was a chartered accountant of Shanghai De’an 
Certified Public Accountants LLP ( 上海德安会计师事务所) from July 2012 to July 2013; he was a chartered 
accountant of the Shanghai branch of PKF Daxin Certified Public Accountants LLP ( 大信会计师事务所上海分
所), from August 2013 to July 2014；he was a partner and a chartered accountant and a partner of Zhongxinghua 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
154 
Certificated Public Accountants LLP ( 中兴华会计师事务所 ) from August 2014 to January 2016 ; h e was a 
chartered accountant of Dahua Certificated Public Accountants LLP ( 大华会计师事务所) from January 2016 to 
December 2021 . Lu has served as an independent director of Hikvision. Lu currently serves as  a chartered 
accountant of Zhongxinghua Certificated Public Accountants LLP Shanghai Branch , MPAcc/Maud Enterprise 
Mentor of Antai College of Economics & Management,Shanghai Jiao Tong University ( 上海交通大学安泰管理
学院), and a supervisor of the Company.  
 
Mr. Xu Lirong (徐礼荣): Born in 1963, master degree of engineering, senior engineer. In January 2002, he joined 
Hikvision and served as manager of development division under the R&D center, secretary of the Board of Directors, 
the person in charge of internal audit, and a deputy general manager of the Company. He is currently the employee 
representative supervisor.  
 
Ms. Cheng Huifang ( 程惠芳): Born in 1953, PhD in international finance. She was a member of the 8 th and 9th 
Zhejiang CPPCC ( 浙江省政协). Cheng has served as a supe rvisor of the Company (left after the expiry of her 
tenure on March 5th 2021). Cheng currently serve as dean of the Global Development Research Institute of Zhejiang 
Businesses under Zhejiang University of Technology ( 浙江工业大学全球浙商发展研究院), professor (level II), 
president of Zhejiang Yangtze River Delta of the Institute of Innovation Management (浙江长三角创新管理研究
院), president of the Zhejiang Financial Engineering Society (浙江省金融工程学会).  
 
3) Senior Management Personnel 
Mr. Hu Yangzhong (胡扬忠): Please refer to his profile in preceding part of the report. 
 
Mr. Wu Weiqi (邬伟琪): Please refer to his profile in preceding part of the report. 
 
Ms. He Hongli ( 何虹丽 ): Born in 1973, master degree in business administration. She joined Hikvision in 
December 2001 and served as an assistant to the general manager and a deputy general manager. Ms. He currently 
serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
155 
Mr. Cai Changyang ( 蔡昶阳): Born in 1971, bachelor degree in engineering. He joined Hikvision in 2004, and 
held various positions of the Company, including general manager of Beijing branch, director for government and 
enterprise corporation department, director of investment department, director of strategy and marketing department, 
and a deputy general manager of the Company. Mr. Cai currently serves as senior deputy general manager of the 
Company. 
 
Mr. Xu Ximing (徐习明): Born in 1973, bachelor degree in engineering. From July 1996 to September 2016, he 
held various positions in IBM, including engineer, department manager, director ，partner of consulting service, 
senior partner of consulting service, and a vice president. He joined Hikvision in September 2016, and served as a 
deputy gene ral manager of the Company. Mr. Xu currently serves as a senior deputy general manager of the 
Company. 
 
Ms. Bi Huijuan (毕会娟): Born in 1971, PhD in engineering, senior research engineer. From April 1999 to August 
2016, she held various positions in the 15th Research Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Corporation 
(CETC), including engineer, senior engineer, senior research engineer, head of R&D department, vice chief 
engineer, and deputy director. She joined Hikvision in August 2016, and served as a deputy general manager of the 
Company. Ms. Bi currently serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
 
Mr. Pu Shiliang ( 浦世亮): Born in 1977, doctor of engineering, a senior engineer. He joined Hikvision in April 
2006 and held various positions in the Company, including R&D engineer, R&D manager, R&D director, dean of 
the R&D institute, and chief expert. He currently serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
 
Mr. Jin Duo ( 金铎): Born in 1965, bachelor degree in engineering, a sen ior engineer. He served as a technician, 
assistant to engineers, an engineer and a senior engineer of the 52nd Research Institute from July 1986 to June 2004. 
He joined Hikvision in July 2004 and served as general manager of Hangzhou Branch, and a deputy general manager 
of the Company. Mr. Jin currently serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company.  
 
Ms. Jin Yan (金艳): Born in 1979, master degree in management, an accountant. She joined Hikvision in 2004 and 
held various positions at the Company , including financial manager, the general manager of the Financial 
Management Center, and a deputy general manager and the person in charge of finance and accounting. Ms. Jin 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
156 
currently serves as a senior deputy general manager and  the person in charge of f inance and accounting of the 
Company. 
 
Ms. Huang Fanghong ( 黄方红): Born in 1982, bachelor degree in law. She joined Hikvision in June 2009 and 
held various positions at the Company including legal department manager, internal audit manager, internal control 
director, and a deputy general manager and the board secretary. Ms. Huang currently serves as a senior deputy 
general manager, and board secretary of the Company. 
 
Mr. Chen Junke ( 陈军科): Born in 1971, bachelor degree in engineering, senior engineer. Chen he ld various 
positions in the 52nd Research Institute from 1994 to 2001, including assistant engineer, engineer and senior engineer. 
He joined the Company in 2001 and served as the technology director of the Digital Video Recorder (DVR) Division 
of the Techn ology Management Center, general manager of supply chain management center, employee 
representative supervisor. Chen currently serves as senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
 
Mr. Xu Peng (徐鹏): Born in 1976, bachelor of engineering, senior engineer. From 1998 to 2004, he successively 
served as an assistant engineer and engineer of 52nd Research Institute, and in 2004, he joined Hikvision, where he 
served as camera research and development manager, research and development director, product director, general 
manager of front -end product business, and deputy general manager of the Company. He is currently the senior 
deputy general manager of the Company. 
 
Mr. Guo Xudong ( 郭旭东 ): Born in 1972, bachelor of engineering. In July 2002, he joined Hikvision, and 
successively served as general manager of Shenzhen Branch, marketing director of domestic marketing center and 
deputy general manager of domestic marketing center. He is currently the senior deputy gen eral manager of the 
Company. 
 
Mr. Fu Baijun ( 傅柏军): Born in 1972, bachelor degree in economics, Chinese Certificated Public Accountant, 
professor-level senior accountant. He served as an accountant of the accounting division of the 52 nd Research 
Institute and a deputy general manager of Zhejiang Haikang Information  Technology Co. Ltd. (浙江海康信息技
术股份有限公司) from July 1996 to December 2008. He joined Hikvision in January 2009, and served as a deputy 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
157 
general manager and the person in charge of accounting department, a deputy general manager, and a senior deputy 
general manager of the Company (left after the expiry of his tenure on March 12th 2021). 
 
Mr. Jiang Yufeng ( 蒋玉峰): Born in 1971, bachelor degree of engineering, an engineer. He joined Hikvision in 
January 2005 and held various positions in the Company, including general manager of Beijing branch, marketing 
director, assistant to general manager, deputy general manager a nd marketing director, a deputy general manager, 
and a senior deputy general manager of the Company (left after the expiry of his tenure on March 12th 2021). 
 
Position held in shareholders’ entities 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Name Shareholder's entity Position in shareholders’ 
entities 
Commencement 
of the term  
Termination of the 
term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the 
shareholders' entity 
Chen 
Zongnian 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Chairman, Secretary of 
Party Committee November 2013 
-- 
Y 
Hu 
Yangzhong 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Director December 2013 
-- 
N 
Xu Lirong China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Supervisor, Member of 
Commission for Discipline 
Inspection 
December 2013 
-- 
N 
 
Positions held in other entities 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Cheng 
Zongnian 
Zhejiang AIoT Technology 
Magazine 
Legal 
Representative February 2004  N 
Cheng 
Zongnian CETC Finance Ltd. Director December 2012 January 2021 N 
Cheng 
Zongnian Phoenix Optics Co., Ltd. Chairman December 2019  N 
Wang Qiuchao Zhejiang T&C Law Firm Partner August 1993  Y 
Wang Qiuchao KaiShan Group Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
May 2015 May 2021 Y 
Wang Qiuchao Botsy Technology Co., Ltd 
Independent 
Director 
May 2020  Y 
Wu Weiqi Xinjiang Pukang Investment 
Management Limited 
Executive Partner April 2011  N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
158 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Partnership 
Wu Weiqi 
Wuhu Sensor Tech Intelligent 
Technology Ltd. 
Director January 2017  N 
Wu Weiqi 
Maxio Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
Director May 2017 
December 
2021 
N 
Wu Weiqi 
Hangzhou Qianmo Tongzhou 
Enterprise Management 
Consulting Partnership 
(Limited Partnership) 
Executive Partner July 2021  N 
Wu Xiaobo 
Shanghai Yirui Management 
Consultants Co., Ltd 
Director April 2004  N 
Wu Xiaobo 
Hangzhou Co-Rui Enterprise 
Management Consulting Co., 
Ltd 
Director April 2011  N 
Wu Xiaobo 
Ningbo Industrial Internet 
Research Institute Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
May 2018  Y 
Wu Xiaobo Eddy Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
August 2018  Y 
Wu Xiaobo 
Zhongliang Holdings Group 
Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
June 2019  Y 
Wu Xiaobo 
Ruihua Innovation 
Management Research 
Institute (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd 
Director November 2019  N 
Wu Xiaobo UCloud Technology Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
June 2020  Y 
Wu Xiaobo 
Zhongtian Holding Group 
Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
director 
July 2021  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Xi'an ShaanGu Power Co., 
Ltd 
Independent 
director 
May 2018  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Shenzhen Dongfang Fuhai 
Investment Management Co., 
Ltd. 
Managing Partner 
of Oriental Fortune 
M&A Fund 
July 2018  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Shenzhen Yuanzhi Fuhai 
Investment Management Co., 
Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of 
Supervisors 
July 2018  N 
Li Shuhua Luoyang Yuchuan Y uye Independent August 2018  Y 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
159 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Group Co., Ltd director 
Li Shuhua 
BOMESC Offshore 
Engineering Company 
Limited 
Independent 
director 
December 2018 
December 
2021 
Y 
Li Shuhua 
Changzhou Guangyang 
Holdings Co., Ltd 
Director & CEO August 2019  N 
Li Shuhua Changzhou NRB Co., Ltd Chairman October 2019  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Weihai Shiyi Electronics Co., 
Ltd 
Legal representative 
and Chairman of 
the board 
December 2020  N 
Li Shuhua Juzhengyuan Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
director 
December 2020  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Guangdong Shengyi 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
director 
October 2021  Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Minjin Information 
Consulting Services Co., Ltd 
Supervisor September 2017  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushiwo Research 
Information Consulting 
Service Co., Ltd. 
Executive 
Director&CEO 
December 2017  Y 
Guan Qingyou Midea Group Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
director 
August 2018  Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Xincai Zhibei 
Information Technology Co., 
Ltd 
Supervisor October 2018  N 
Guan Qingyou South China Futures Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
March 2019  Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Film Spectrum 
Technology Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
March 2019  Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Shanxi International Trust 
Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
July 2019  Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Shandong Expressway Road 
and Bridge Group Co., Ltd 
Independent 
director 
January 2021  Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushi Chengjin 
Information Consulting 
Service Co., Ltd. 
CEO October 2016  N 
Guan Qingyou Beijing Rushiwo Research Executive May 2020  N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
160 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Institute of Science and 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director&CEO 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushi Wancheng 
Technology Development Co., 
Ltd. 
Executive 
Director& CEO 
June 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Hainan Wuyongtang 
Information Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Executive 
Director& CEO 
July 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Yaocen Yuanmu 
Information Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Executive 
Director& CEO 
July 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Qingdao Rushiwo Research 
Investment Management Co., 
Ltd. 
Executive 
Director& CEO 
September 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Ruoan Jiatai 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Executive 
Director& CEO 
December 2020  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fangguang 
Investment Management Ltd. 
Executive Director February 2012  Y 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fangguang Venture 
Investment Management 
Partnership Enterprise 
(Limited Partnership) 
Managing Partner June 2012  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fangguang Venture 
Investment Partnership 
Enterprise (Limited 
Partnership) 
Managing Partner August 2012  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fangguang Erqi 
Venture Investment 
Partnership Enterprise 
(Limited Partnership) 
Managing Partner September 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Suzhou Fangguang Venture 
Investment Management 
Partnership Enterprise 
(Limited Partnership) 
Managing Partner September 2012  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Suzhou Fangguang Venture 
Investment Partnership 
Enterprise (Limited 
Partnership) 
Managing Partner September 2012  N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
161 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Hong Tianfeng 
Suzhou Fangguang Venture 
Investment Phase II 
Partnership Enterprise 
(Limited Partnership) 
Managing Partner July 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen Pengfenghui 
Venture Investment Ltd. 
Executive Director 
& CEO 
June 2014 March 2021 N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen Fangguang 
Enterprise Management 
Consulting Ltd. 
Executive Director 
& CEO 
May 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Sannuo Biology Sensor Co., 
Ltd. 
Director September 2013  Y 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen YunZhiXun 
Network Technology Ltd. 
Director May 2014  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Jiangsu JiTaiKe Electrics Co., 
Ltd. 
Director July 2015 
December 
2021 
N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Zhongwei Dahe Cloud 
Connection Network 
Technology Ltd. 
Director November 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen DongFengMingTu 
Enterprise Management Ltd. 
Supervisor August 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Beijing ZhiZhangYi Sicence 
and Technology Ltd. 
Director December 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
CETC Huayun Information 
Technology Ltd. 
Director March 2017  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen YingFeiYuan 
Technology Ltd. 
Director October 2017  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen Chip and Semi-
conductor Technology Ltd. 
Director February 2018  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Guangzhou Smart Software 
Ltd. 
Director March 2018  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Daxian Intelligent 
Science and Technology Ltd. 
Director June 2018  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Quanzhi Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
Director July 2018  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen Zhongtu Instrument 
Co., Ltd. 
Director February 2021  N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
162 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fanglan Enterprise 
Management Center 
Executive Director 
& CEO 
March 2021  N 
Lu Jianzhong 
Antai College of Economics 
and Management, SJTU 
Corporate mentor December 2013  N 
Lu Jianzhong 
Dahua Certificated Public 
Accountants LLP 
Chartered 
Accountant 
January 2016 
December 
2021 
N 
Lu Jianzhong 
Zhongxinghua Certified 
Public Accountants LLP 
(Shanghai Branch) 
Chartered 
Accountant 
January 2022  N 
Lu Jianzhong 
ChangShu FengFan Electric 
Power Equipment Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
September 2015 
November 
2021 
Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
Ningbo Lehui International 
Construction Equipment Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
March 2016 
December 
2021 
Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
COSCO Maritime Transport 
Development Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
January 2018  Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
Shanghai Xinnanyang Angli 
Education Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
January 2019  Y 
Lu Jianzhong INESA (Group) Co., Ltd. Director December 2019  N 
Lu Jianzhong 
Huatai Baoxing Fund 
Management Co., Ltd. 
Director July 2016  Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
Shanghai Vico Precision Mold 
&Plastics Co,. Ltd. 
Director May 2021  Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
BOMESC Offshore 
Engineering Company 
Limited 
Independent 
Director 
December 2021  Y 
Xu Ximing 
Shenzhen Wangyu Security 
Service Science and 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director November 2019  N 
Xu Ximing 
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng 
Network Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director August 2020  N 
Xu Ximing 
Hangzhou Confirmware 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director August 2021  N 
Jin Duo 
Zhejiang Haishi Huayue 
Digital Technology Co., Ltd 
Legal representative 
&Chairman of the 
January 2020  N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
163 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
board 
Xu Peng 
Maxio Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
Director December 2021  N 
Guo Xudong 
Zhejiang Fast Line data fusion 
Information Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Director January 2021  N 
Gong Hongjia Furong Technology Ltd. Director October 1999  N 
Gong Hongjia Funian Technology Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board 
April 2002  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Guangzhou Funian Electronic 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Chairman July 2002  N 
Gong Hongjia Hangzhou FunVio Ltd. Chairman February 2004  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Beijing Funian Technology 
Ltd. 
Legal 
Representative 
November 2011  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shanghai Fullhan 
Microelectronics Co., Ltd. 
Director April 2013  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen Innovation Valley 
Investment Management Ltd. 
Director July 2014  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shanghai Pukun Information 
Technology Ltd. 
Director September 2014 July 2021 N 
Gong Hongjia FuCe Holdings Ltd. Director October 2014  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Chuangjia Venture Capital 
Investment Ltd 
Director October 2014  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen Jiadao Valley 
Investment Management Ltd. 
Legal 
Representative & 
CEO 
October 2014  Y 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen Jiadao Gongcheng 
Equity Investment Fund 
(Limited Partnership) 
Executive Partner 
Designated 
Representative 
November 2014  N 
Gong Hongjia 
JiuBaYi Health Technology 
Ltd. 
Director November 2014  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Beijing JiaBoWen 
Biotechnology Ltd. 
Director March 2015  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Wuhan YouXin Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
Director January 2016  N 
Gong Hongjia QingKe Management Director February 2017  N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
164 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Consulting Group Ltd. 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen JiadaoFangzhi 
Education Industry Investment 
Enterprise (Limited 
Partnership) 
Executive Partner 
Designated 
Representative 
June 2017  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen Jiadao Successful 
Investment Enterprise 
(Limited Partnership) 
Executive Partner 
Designated 
Representative 
August 2017  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shanghai AoYuan Medical 
Supplies Ltd. 
Chairman September 2017  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Sichuan JiaDao BoWen 
Ecological Technology Ltd. 
Chairman December 2017  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Beijing JiaDaoGu 
Management Consulting Ltd. 
Supervisor April 2018  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen Zhongke Science 
and Technology Achievements 
Transformation Equity 
Investment Fund Management 
Ltd. 
Director December 2019  N 
Gong Hongjia 
ZhongYuan Concord Cell 
Genetic Engineering Co., Ltd. 
Chairman December 2018 
December 
2021 
N 
Gong Hongjia 
Tianjin Deyuan Investment 
Development Ltd. 
Director July 2019  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Sichuan Huiyang Life 
Engineering Co., Ltd. 
Director September 2019  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Yong Tai Hong Kan Holding 
Group Ltd. 
Vice Chairman October 2019  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Shenzhen CSMAR Data 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director February 2020  N 
Gong Hongjia 
Beijing Nutshell Universe 
Education Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Director February 2021  N 
Cheng 
Tianzong 
Aurotek Corporation Director June 2014  Y 
Cheng 
Tianzong 
Zuozhen Co., Ltd. Director January 2015  Y 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
165 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination 
of the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Cheng 
Tianzong 
WT Microelectronics Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
June 2016  Y 
Wang Zhidong 
Beijing Yilianyisheng Science 
and Technology Ltd. 
Chairman and CEO October 2013  Y 
Cheng Huifang 
Zhejiang HuaCe Media Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
February 2016  Y 
Cheng Huifang 
Zhejiang Commercial Bank 
Co., Ltd. 
External Supervisor June 2016  Y 
Cheng Huifang 
Quzhou NanGaoFeng 
Chemical Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
March 2017 
December 
2021 
Y 
Cheng Huifang 
Ningbo Fujia Industrial Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
April 2020  Y 
Cheng Huifang 
Zhejiang Youyi Medical 
Equipment Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
September 2020  Y 
Cheng Huifang 
Zhejiang China Textile City 
Group Co., Ltd 
Independent 
Director 
November 2020  Y 
Fu Baijun 
Shenzhen Hikvision Urban 
Service Operation Co., Ltd. 
Chairman July 2020  N 
Description of 
the status of 
employment in 
other units 
1) Gong Hongjia resigned as a director of the Company at the end of his tenure on March 5 th 2021, and resigned 
as vice Chairman of the Company at the end of his tenure on March 12th 2021; 
2) Cheng Tianzong and Wang zhidong resigned as independent directors of the Company at the end of their tenure 
on March 5th 2021; 
3) Cheng Huifang resigned as a supervisor of the Company at the end of her tenure on March 5th 2021; 
4) Fu Baijun resigned as a senior management of the Company at the end of his tenure on March 12th 2021; 
Incumbent and off-office directors, supervisors and senior management personnel during the reporting period that 
have been imposed administrative penalties by the CSRC during the last three years. 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
3. Remuneration of Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management Personnel  
The decision-making program, determination basis and actual remuneration payment of directors, supervisors and 
senior management personnel: 
The remuneration of directors, supervisors and senior management personnel will be received preliminarily by 
the Remuneration and Appraisal Committee of the Board, among them, remuneration of independent directors 
and external supervisors would be further reviewed and approved by general meeting of shareholders. As for those 
directors (exclude independent directors), superv isors (exclude external supervisors) and senior management 
personnel who receive remuneration from the Company directly, they will receive remuneration according to the 
Company’s current Salary System and Performance Appraisal Schemes. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
166 
Remuneration of directors, supervisors and senior management personnel                               
Unit: RMB 0,000 
Name Title Gender Age Tenure status 
Total remuneration 
from the Company 
(RMB'0,000) 
Remuneration 
from related 
parties (Y/N) 
Chen Zongnian Chairman M 57 Incumbent 0.00 Y 
Qu Liyang Director M 58 Incumbent 0.00 Y 
Wang Qiuchao Director M 71 Incumbent 28.33 N 
Hu Yangzhong Director, CEO M 57 Incumbent 312.73 N 
Wu Weiqi Director, Standing Deputy 
General Manager M 58 Incumbent 310.97 N 
Wu Xiaobo Independent Director M 62 Incumbent 25.00 N 
Hu Ruimin Independent Director M 58 Incumbent 25.00 N 
Li Shuhua Independent Director M 51 Incumbent 25.00 N 
Guan Qingyou Independent Director M 45 Incumbent 25.00 N 
Hong Tianfeng Supervisor Chairman M 56 Incumbent 21.67 N 
Lu Jianzhong Supervisor M 68 Incumbent 21.67 N 
Xu Lirong Supervisor M 59 Incumbent 162.09 N 
He Hongli Senior Deputy General 
Manager F 49 Incumbent 290.77 N 
Cai Changyang Senior Deputy General 
Manager M 51 Incumbent 262.27 N 
Xu Ximing Senior Deputy General 
Manager M 49 Incumbent 420.88 N 
Bi Huijuan Senior Deputy General 
Manager F 51 Incumbent 410.20 N 
Pu Shiliang Senior Deputy General 
Manager M 45 Incumbent 291.99 N 
Jin duo Senior Deputy General 
Manager M 57 Incumbent 287.14 N 
Jin Yan 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager, person in charge of 
finance and accounting 
F 43 Incumbent 259.81 N 
Huang Fanghong 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Board Secretary 
F 40 Incumbent 259.52 N 
Chen Junke 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
M 51 Incumbent 259.68 N 
Xu Peng 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
M 46 Incumbent 239.97 N 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
167 
Name Title Gender Age Tenure status 
Total remuneration 
from the Company 
(RMB'0,000) 
Remuneration 
from related 
parties (Y/N) 
Guo Xudong 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
M 50 Incumbent 196.49 N 
Gong Hongjia Vice Chairman M 57 Resigned 0.00 Y 
Cheng Tianzong Independent Director M 70 Resigned 5.00 N 
Wang Zhidong Independent Director M 55 Resigned 5.00 N 
Cheng Huifang Supervisor Chairman F 69 Resigned 3.33 N 
Fu Baijun 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
M 50 Resigned 28.21 N 
Jiang Yufeng 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
M 51 Resigned 29.23 N 
Total -- -- -- -- 4,206.95 -- 
Other information on positions and 
incumbency 
1) On March 5th 2021, Gong Hongjia left as a director of the Company, Cheng Tianzong 
and Wang Zhidong left as independent directors of the Company, and Cheng Huifang 
left as a supervisor of the Company at the end of thier tenure. Wang Qiuchao was elected 
as a director of the Company's 5th session of the Board of Directors, and Hong Tianfeng 
and Lu Jianzhong were elected as supervisors of the Company's 5th session of the Board 
of Supervisors. 
2) On March 12th 2021, Gong Hongjia, Fu Baijun and Jiang Yufeng left their senior 
management positions after expires of their tenures, Xu Peng and Guo Xudong were 
appointed as senior management personnel of the Company. 
Note: During the reporting period, the remuneration of newcomers and directors, supervisors and senior 
management with adjusted positions are the remuneration for the period in which they held their positions. 
 
VI. Performance of Duties by Directors during the Reporting Period 
1. The Board of Directors during the Reporting Period 
Meeting Session Convening Date Disclosure Date Meeting Resolutions 
The 21st meeting of the 4th session 
of the Board 
January 8th 2021 January 9th 2021 
11 proposals were considered and approved at 
the meeting, including the Proposal on Adjusting 
and Splitting the Board for Domestic Listing of 
the Subsidiary, Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., 
Ltd. For details, please refer to the Company’s 
announcement: No. 2021-001. 
The 22nd meeting of the 4th February 5th 2021 February 6th 2021 3 proposals were considered and approved at the 
meeting, including the Proposal on Nominating 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
168 
Meeting Session Convening Date Disclosure Date Meeting Resolutions 
session of the Board Candidates of Directors for the 5th session of the 
Board. For details, please refer to the Company’s 
announcement: No. 2021-006. 
The 1st meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
March 12th 2021 March 13th 2021 
8 proposals were considered and approved at the 
meeting, including the Proposal on Electing the 
Chairman of 5th session of the Board. For details, 
please refer to the Company’s announcement: 
No. 2021-021. 
The 2nd meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
April 15th 2021 April 17th 2021 
35 proposals were considered and approved at 
the meeting, including the 2020 Annual Report 
and Its Summary. For details, please refer to the 
Company’s announcement: No. 2021-026. 
The 3rd meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
July 23rd 2021 July 24th 2021 
3 proposals were considered and approved at the 
meeting, including the 2021 Half Year Report 
and Its Summary. For details, please refer to the 
Company’s announcement: No. 2021-044. 
The 4th meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
August 10th 2021 August 11th 2021 
13 proposals were considered and approved at 
the meeting, including the Proposal on the Spin-
off of the Company’s Subsidiary, Hangzhou 
EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. to be Listed on the 
STAR Market, in Compliance with Relevant 
Laws and Regulations. For details, please refer 
to the Company’s announcement: No. 2021-049. 
The 5th meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
September 30th 2021 October 8th 2021 
3 proposals were considered and approved at the 
meeting, including the 2021 Restricted Share 
Scheme (Draft) and Its Summary. For details, 
please refer to the Company’s announcement: 
No. 2021-059. 
The 6th meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
October 22nd 20201 October 23rd 2021 
2 proposals were considered and approved at the 
meeting, including the 2021 Q3 Report. For 
details, please refer to the Company’s 
announcement: No. 2021-061. 
The 7th meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
December 30th 2021 December 31st 2021 
6 proposals were considered and approved at the 
meeting, including the 2021 Restricted Share 
Scheme (Revised Draft) and Its Summary. For 
details, please refer to the Company’s 
announcement: No. 2021-072. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
169 
2. Attendance of Directors in Board Meetings and General Meetings 
Attendance of directors in board meetings and general meetings 
Name of Director  
Board meeting 
presence 
required in the 
reporting 
period (times) 
Board 
meeting 
presence 
on site 
(times) 
Board meeting 
presence by 
telecom- 
communication 
(times) 
Board meeting 
presence through 
a proxy (times) 
Board meeting 
absence 
(times) 
Board meeting 
not attend in 
person for two 
consecutive 
times 
Presence of 
independent 
directors in 
general 
meetings 
(times) 
Chen Zongnian 9 1 8 0 0 N 0 
Qu Liyang 9 1 8 0 0 N 1 
Wang Qiuchao 7 1 6 0 0 N 2 
Hu Yangzhong 9 1 8 0 0 N 3 
Wu Weiqi 9 1 8 0 0 N 2 
Wu Xiaobo 7 1 6 0 0 N 2 
Hu Ruimin 7 1 6 0 0 N 2 
Li Shuhua 7 1 6 0 0 N 1 
Guan Qingyou 7 1 6 0 0 N 1 
Gong Hongjia 2 0 2 0 0 N 1 
Cheng Tianzong 2 0 2 0 0 N 0 
Lu Jianzhong 2 0 2 0 0 N 2 
Wang Zhidong 2 0 2 0 0 N 1 
Hong Tianfeng 2 0 2 0 0 N 0 
Other Information 
1) The Company  held the first extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in 2021 on March 5 th 2021 to 
complete the election of the Board of Directors. Gong Hongjia  resigned as a director of the Company; Cheng 
Tianzong and Wang Zhidong resigned as independent directors of the Company; Wang Qiuchao was elected as a 
director of the 5th session of the Board of Directors of the Company; Hong Tianfeng and Lu Jianzhong were elected 
as supervisors of the 5th session of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. 
2) During the reporting period, the 4th session of the Board of Directors of the Company held 2 board meetings, 
and the 5th session of the Board of Directors held 7 board meetings. 
3. Objections from Directors on Related Issues of the Company 
Were there any objections on related issues of the Company from directors? 
□ Yes √ No  
During the reporting period, there is no objections on related issues of the Company from directors. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
170 
4. Other Details about the Performance of Duties by Directors 
Were there any suggestions from directors accepted by the Company? 
√ Yes □ No 
Details: During the Reporting Period, directors strictly followed related rules, regulations, including Company 
Law, Rules Governing the Listing of Shares on Shenzhen Stock Exchange , Shenzhen Stock Exchange Listed 
Companies Self -Regulatory Supervision Guidelines No. 1 - Standardized Operation of Main Board Listed 
Companies and Articles of Association. They focused on the Company operation, carefully review the Company's 
relevant meeting materials, reviewed and approved a number of board resolutions, and have no objection to all the 
proposals; At the same time, the directors of the Company put forward relevant constructive suggestions based on 
their professional abilities and the actual situation of the Company, which had a positive impact on the standardized 
operation of the Company and fulfilled their duties as directors. 
The Company ’s independent directors strictly followed related rules, regulations, including  Rules for 
Independent Directors of Listed Companies and Regulations on Independent Directors. They carried out their duties 
independently and imparted considerable professional advice on improving the Company ’s systems, daily 
operations and decision making. They provided fair advice during the reporting period and played an effective role 
in improving the Company supervisory systems and protecting the legal rights of the Company, the shareholders, 
especially public shareholders  as a whole. For details, please refer to Independent Directors’ 2021 Debriefings  
disclosed on www.cninfo.com.cn.  
VII. The Special Committees under the Board during the Reporting Period 
Committee Name Members 
Number of 
meetings held 
Convening Date Meeting Content 
Important 
comments and 
suggestions  
Strategy Committee 
of the 4th seesion of 
the Board of 
Directors 
Chen Zongnian 
(convener), Gong 
Hongjia, Cheng 
Tianzong, Hong 
Tianfeng 
3 
January 7th 2021 to 
February 26th 2021 
Reviewed and approved 3 
proposals including the 
Proposal on the Overall 
Change of the Holding 
Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ 
Network Co., Ltd. to a 
incorporated company 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Nomination 
Committee of the 4th 
Wang Zhidong 
(convener), Hong 
1 February 5th 2021 Reviewed and approved 1 
proposal of Nomination of 
All expressed 
concurring 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
171 
Committee Name Members 
Number of 
meetings held 
Convening Date Meeting Content 
Important 
comments and 
suggestions  
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Tianfeng, Qu Liyang Candidates for Directors of 
the 5th Board of Directors of 
the Company 
opinions 
Remuneration and 
Appraisal 
Committee of the 4th 
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Hong Tianfeng 
(convener), Lu 
Jianzhong, Wu Weiqi 
1 February 5th 2021 
Reviewed and approved 1 
proposal of Independent 
Director Allowance of the 5th 
Board of Directors 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Strategy Committee 
of the 5th session of 
the Board of 
Directors 
Chen Zongnian 
(convener), Wu 
Xiaobo, Hu Ruimin 
6 
April 15th 2021 to 
December 28th 2021 
Reviewed and approved 8 
proposals including the 2020 
Annual Work Report of the 
Strategy Committee of the 
Board of Directors 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Audit Committee of 
the 5th session of the 
Board of Directors 
Li Shuhua 
(convener), Wang 
Qiuchao, Guan 
Qingyou 
4 
March 12th 2021 to 
April 15th 2021 
Reviewed and approved 10 
proposals including 
Nomination of Person in 
Charge of Internal Audit 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Nomination 
Committee of the 5th 
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Hu Ruimin 
(convener), Qu 
Liyang, Li Shuhua 
1 March 12th 2021 
Reviewed and approved 3 
proposals including the 
Proposal on the Appointment 
of General Managers 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Remuneration and 
Appraisal 
Committee of the 5th 
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Guan Qingyou 
(convener), Wu 
Xiaobo, Wu Weiqi 
5 
March 26th 2021 to 
December 30th 2021 
Reviewed and approved 12 
proposals including the 2021 
Restricted Stock Scheme 
(Draft) and Summary 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Other Information 
The Company held the first extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in 2021 on March 5th 2021 to 
complete the election of the Board of Directors. On March 12th 2021, the 1st meeting of the 5th session of the 
Board of Directors reviewed and approved the Proposal on Appointing Members of Special Committees of the 
5th session of the Board of Directors. 
VIII. Performance of Duties by the Supervisory Committee 
Were there any risks to the Company identified by Board of Supervisors when performing its duties during the 
reporting period? 
□ Yes √ No  
The Board of Supervisors has no objection to the supervision matters during the reporting period. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
172 
IX. Staff in the Company 
1. Statistics of Employees, Professional Structure of the Staff, and Educational Background 
Number of incumbent employees in the parent Company at the end of the reporting period 20,527 
Number of incumbent employees in major subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period 32,225 
Number of incumbent employees at the end of the reporting period 52,752 
Number of employees receiving salaries in current period 52,752 
Number of retired employees requiring the parent Company and its subsidiaries to bear costs 0 
Professional structure 
Tier Number of employees  
Managerial personnel 806 
Production staff 15,513 
Sales staff 9,296 
Technical staff 25,352 
Financial staff 382 
Administrative Staff 1,403 
Total 52,752 
Educational background 
Education background Number of employees  
Master and/or doctor/or above 9,222 
Bachelor 26,834 
Junior College (professional training) 4,245 
Other 12,451 
Total 52,752 
 
2. Staff Remuneration Policy 
Hikvision applies scientific talent cultivation methods, effective talent incentive mechanisms and fair 
competition platforms to recruit talents, and continuously optimizes the talent structure. The Company provides 
employees with remuneration packages which are competitive in the industry. In addition to endowment insurance, 
medical insurance, unemployment insurance, employment injury insurance, maternity insurance and housing 
provident funds, the Company also provides employees with the supplementary comm ercial insurance, special 
allowances, and other benefits, and creates a fairer and more humanized working environment for each employee; 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
173 
so that each employee is able to demonstrate his/her value, and create value to satisfy increasing demands for a good 
life.  
3. Staff Training Plans 
The Company is focused on long-term development strategies and works for the goal of supporting business 
development and people development. The Company has planned and implemented a set of training programs and 
courses.  
Because of the epidemic in early 2020, the Company's original training programs have been strongly impacted, 
and offline training is at risk of being cancelled at any time. Faced with such a dilemma, the Company's training 
programs have achieved rapid reconstruction and transformation, and accelerated the transformation from an online 
learning platform to a digital talent development platform to meet training demands from a multi -dimensional 
perspective. At the same time, the Company focused on several key positions for the implementation of the annual 
strategy, and carried out targeted ability improvement projects to help the talent pool and improve the ability of 
strategic transformation and key battles of business development. 
In 2021, in the macro context of living with the COVID-19 Epidemic, businesses becoming more complex and 
the rise of a new breed of employees, the Company had to adapt itself to the higher requirements on learning 
management and operations. Therefore, the Company  remained committed to the twin strategies of "system 
construction" and "resource construction". In order to adapt to the diversity of internal learning needs, the Company 
gradually strengthened the traction and design of talent training projects through deep online and offline integration, 
and promoted organizational experience accumulation and replication in a more orderly manner, with the aim of 
achieving online full-process operation and management of internal trainers and courses, and further improving the 
efficiency of resource management. 
At the same time, the human resources department goes deep into the front line of the business, working with 
the business experts to jointly learn from the organization’s experience and to complete the design and 
implementation of large -scale projects combining training and practice. Through empowering the business 
departments with training and operation capabilities, the daily organization of business training can become 
embedded in the business departments, which wi ll better support the upgrade of skills at key positions during 
business transformation, thus enabling talent development “on demand and in a timely manner”. 
In 2022, in addition to continuing to strengthen the construction of talent development systems, the Company 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
174 
will further strengthen the development of digital talent platform. Through shaping the branding of learning projects, 
sharing learning resources, extending promotion of platforms to lower levels and implementing closed loops on 
training data, the Company seeks to address the challenges posed by changeable training landscape and rapid 
knowledge iteration under VUCA, and better facilitate talent supply. 
4. Labor Outsourcing 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
X. Profit Distribution and Capitalization of Capital Reserves  
Profit distribution policy in the reporting period, especially the formulation, implementation and adjustment of 
cash dividend policy 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
Special explanation of cash dividend policy 
Whether it complies with the provisions of the Company's articles of association or the requirements of 
the resolution of the shareholders' meeting: 
Yes 
Whether the dividend standard and dividend ratio are clear: Yes 
Whether the relevant decision-making procedures and mechanisms are complete: Yes 
Whether independent directors performed their duties and played their due roles: Yes 
Whether minority shareholders have the opportunity to fully express their opinions and demands, and 
whether their legitimate rights and interests are fully protected: 
Yes 
If the cash dividend policy is adjusted or changed, whether the conditions and procedures are 
compliant and transparent: 
Inapplicable 
The 2nd meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Directors of the Company reviewed and approved the 2020 
Annual Profit Distribution Proposal , and was reviewed and approved by the Company 's 2020 annual general 
meeting: based on the Company’s current total share capital of 9,343,417,190 shares, the Company proposed to 
distribute cash dividend of RMB 8 (tax inclusive) per each 10 shares to all shareholders, bonus share and share 
distribution from capital reserve is nil.  The date of record for this profit distribution is May 27 th 2021, the ex -
rights/ex-dividend date is May 28th 2021, and the total cash dividends (tax included) is RMB 7,474,733,752.00. 
The above -mentioned profit distribution policy conforms to the provisions of the Company 's articles of 
association and the review procedures, and fully protects the legitimate ri ghts and interests of small and medium 
investors, and the independent directors have expressed their agreement. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
175 
During the reporting period, the Company was profitable and the distributable profits to shareholders of the parent 
company was positive, but the Company did not propose a cash dividend distribution plan.  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
Profit distribution and capitalizing of capital reserves for the current reporting period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Bonus issue per 10 shares (share) 0 
Cash dividend per 10 shares (RMB) (tax 
inclusive) 9.00 
Additional shares converted from capital reserves 
for 10 shares (share) 0 
Total capital shares as the basis for the distribution 
proposal (share) 9,433,208,719 
Total cash dividend (RMB) (tax inclusive) 8,489,887,847.10 
Amount of cash dividends in other methods (such 
as share repurchase) (RMB) 0 
Total cash dividends (including other methods) 
(RMB) 8,489,887,847.10 
Distributable profits (RMB) 37,958,561,319.89 
Percentage of cash dividends in the total 
distributed profit (%) 22.37% 
Cash dividend policy: 
The Company is in the development stage and has a substantial plan of cash expenditure. In the current profit distribution, cash 
dividends shall account for at least 20%. 
Details about the plan for profit distribution and capitalizing capital reserves into share capital 
As audited by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP, in 2021, the parent company of the Company realized 
net profit of RMB 14,088,727,668.02, the statutory surplus reserve is nil, adding the undistributed profit of the parent company at the 
beginning of the year of RMB 31,327,891,058.77 deducting the cash dividends of RMB 7,474,733,752.00 in 2020, adding back RMB 
16,676,345.10 of the unpaid dividends for the repurc hased restricted shares, as of December 31 st 2021, the profits distributable to 
shareholders of the parent company amounted to RMB 37,958,561,319.89. As of December 31 st 2021, the profits distributable to 
shareholders in the consolidated statement were RMB  45,148,877,451.52 (consolidated). To sum up, according to the principle of 
“whichever is lower”, the profits distributable to shareholders this year was RMB 37,958,561,319.89. 
 
Based on the Company’s current total share capital of 9,433,208,719 shares, the Company proposed to distribute cash dividend of 
RMB 9 (tax inclusive) per each 10 shares to all shareholders, bonus share and share distribution from capital reserve is nil. The above 
scheme will distribute a total cash dividend of RMB 8,489,887,847.10, and the remaining undistributed profits will be transferred to 
the next year. 
 
 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
176 
XI. The Implementation of an Equity Incentive Plan, Employee Stock Incentive Plan, or other 
Incentive Plans  
√Applicable □Inapplicable  
During the reporting period, the Company has completed the third vesting, repurchase and cancellation of the 
2016 Restricted Share Incentive S cheme and the first vesting, repurchase and cancellation of the 2018 Restricted 
Share Incentive Scheme. 
On December 25th 2020, the Proposal on Vesting Conditional Achievements for the Third Vesting Period of the 
2016 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme, Proposal on the Third Repurchase and Cancellation of the Granted but 
Unvested Restricted Shares under the Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2016, Proposal on Vesting Conditional 
Achievements for the First V esting Period of the 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme, and the Proposal on the 
First Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the Restricted Share Incentive 
Scheme of 2018 were deliberated and adopted by the 20th Meeting of the 4th session of the Board of Directors and 
the 17th Meeting of the 4thsession of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. According to the authorization of 
the 2nd Extraordinary General Meeting of 2016 and the 2nd Extraordinary General Meeting of 2018 of the Company, 
The Company handled the vesting of a total of 66,796,439 restricted shares for 5,937 incentive grantees. The 
restricted shares were listed for circulation on January 20th 2021; at the same time, 7,611,076 granted but unvested 
shares that did not meet the incentive conditions were repurchased and cancelled, and the repurchase and 
cancellation procedures were completed as of June 30th 2021. 
For details, please refer to the Indicative Announcement on Vesting, Listing and Circulation of Shares in the 
Third V esting Period of the 2016 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme (No.: 2021-004), Indicative Announcement on 
Vesting, Listing and Circulation of Shares in the First Vesting Period of the 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme 
(No. 2021-005), and Announcement on the Completion of the Third Repurchase and Cancellation of the Granted 
but Unvested Restricted Shares under the 2016 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme an d the First Repurchase and 
Cancellation of the Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme (No.: 
2021-042) issued by the Company on January 18th 2021 ad July 2nd 2021, respectively.   
As of the end of the current  reporting period, the Company has a total of 68,762,683 granted but unvested 
shares, accounting for 0.74% of the Company's total share capital. 
The Company performs accounting treatments related to restricted share incentive plans in accordance with 
the r equirements of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 11 -Share Payments and other related 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
177 
accounting standards. The cost of the shares granted by the 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme is amortized 
during the vesting period. 
During the reporting period, the amortization cost of the Company's 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme 
had no significant impact on the Company 's financial status and operating results. For details, please refer to 
Financial Statement Note (XI)-Share-based Payment. 
 
Equity incentives obtained by the directors and senior management of the Company 
√Applicable □Inapplicable  
Unit: Share  
Name Title 
Restricted 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the period 
Shares vested in 
the current 
period 
Shares newly 
granted in the 
current period 
Price for 
restricted  
shares granted 
(RMB per 
share) 
Restricted 
Shares held at 
period-end 
Hu Yangzhong Director, CEO 48,150 48,150 - - 0 
Wu Weiqi Director, Standing Deputy 
General Manager   44,550 44,550 - - 0 
He Hongli 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
41,400 41,400 
- - 
0 
Xu Lirong Supervisor   32,850 32,850 - - 0 
Jin Duo 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
32,850 32,850 
- - 
0 
Jin Yan 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager, person in charge 
of finance 
162,200 96,200 
- - 
66,000 
Cai Changyang 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
32,850 32,850 
- - 
0 
Bi Huijuan 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
168,000 94,200 
- - 
73,800 
Pu Shiliang 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
144,820 84,820 
- - 
60,000 
Huang Fanghong 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager, Secretary of the 
Board 
110,000 44,000 
- - 
66,000 
Xu Ximing 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
197,000 78,800 
- - 
118,200 
Xu Peng 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
128,740 51,496 
- - 
77,244 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
178 
Name Title 
Restricted 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the period 
Shares vested in 
the current 
period 
Shares newly 
granted in the 
current period 
Price for 
restricted  
shares granted 
(RMB per 
share) 
Restricted 
Shares held at 
period-end 
Guo Xudong 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
73,800 29,520 
- - 
44,280 
Fu Baijun 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager (resigned) 
163,950 100,950 
  
63,000 
Jiang Yufeng 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager(resigned) 
36,900 36,900 
  
0 
Total -- 1,418,060 849,536 -  568,524 
Note: 
(1) This personnel listed above is the Company’s senior executives who were included in 2016 restricted shares 
incentive plan and 2018 restricted shares incentive plan. 
(2) Fu Baijun and Jiang Y ufeng left their positions at expires of their tenures on March 12th 2021. 
 
Assessment and incentive mechanism for the senior management  
The Company  has established a fairly sophisticated mechanism on employees’ evaluation and incentive 
restraint, and has established a fair and transparent appraisal and incentive mechanism on senior management 
personnel and other various level management personnel and empl oyees. The Company’s Board of Directors has 
carried out annual appraisals of senior management members mainly based on annual target achievement index. 
The Board  is responsible for  appraisals of the general manager on the general manager’s  duty, capacity a nd 
performance of operation; and the general manager carried out appraisals of other senior management members on 
their operational management and implementation of relevant assignments. In 2021, senior management personnel 
carried out their duties diligently with good performance, and fairly completed their objectives and missions set out 
at the beginning of the year. 
XII. Construction and Implementation of Internal Control System during the Reporting Period 
1. Construction and Implementation of Internal Control 
The Company  shall establish, improve and effectively implement internal control, further improve the 
construction of internal control system and strengthen internal audit supervision in accordance with the Basic 
Standard for Enterprise Internal Control, its associated Guidelines and other internal control supervision 
requirements. The Board of Directors of the Company truthfully discloses the internal control evaluation report. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
179 
The Board of Supervisors supervises the establishment by the Board of Directors and its implementation of internal 
control. The management is responsible for organizing and leading the daily internal controls of the Company. 
The Audit Committee of the Company under the Board of Directors inspects and supervises the scientificity, 
rationality, effectiveness and implementation of the Company's internal control system. At the same time, the Audit 
Committee has organized special work meetings to follow up on the implementation of major matters by the 
financial center and interna l audit department, and puts forward relevant requirements on the internal control 
compliance of the Company. The Company has set up an internal audit department under the Audit Committee of 
the Board of Directors , which is equipped with full -time personne l to independently carry out internal audits, 
supervise and inspect the effectiveness and rationality of internal control. The internal audit department is 
accountable and reports to the Audit Committee and reports on their work regularly. The internal audit department 
audits the risk profiles of the Company’s business areas according to an annual audit plan. It highlights internal 
control defects and gives rational suggestions, and standardizes and supervises the operation and management of 
the Company. 
During the reporting period, the Company continuously strengthened its self-evaluation and self-improvement 
on internal control. It continued to improve and thoroughly implement internal control in its departments and 
strengthened the awareness of compliance  management, to ensure the effective implementation of the internal 
control system, improve the standard of the Company ’s operations, and promote the healthy and sustainable 
development of the Company. For more details, please refer to the  2021 Internal Control Self-Evaluation Report 
disclosed by the Company on CNINFO website (www.cninfo.com.cn). 
2. Any Significant Internal Control Deficiencies during the Reporting Period 
□ Yes √ No  
 
XIII. The Company's Management and Control of Subsidiaries during the Reporting Period 
In strict adherence to the relevant laws and regulations such as the Authorization Management System and the 
regulations and normative documents of regulatory authorities, the Company considers and approves proposals on 
the establishment of new subsidiaries, and exercises management powers over major matters of the subsidiaries in 
accordance with the requirements regarding assets control over the subsidiaries and the standard operations of the 
Company. At the same time, subsidiaries shall provide timely, complete and accurate information to the Company 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
180 
such as operating results, financial position and operating prospects, so that the Company can conduct scientific 
decision-making, supervision and coordination. 
During the reporting period, the Company established one new wholly-owned subsidiary and four subsidiaries 
with a controlling stake. Also the Company acquired two subsidiaries, had one additional subsidiary due to changes 
in voting rights, and liquidated and cancelled the registration of four subsidiaries. The Company lost one subsidiary 
due to the termination of management trust agreement. All of this result in changes in the scope of its consolidated 
financial statement. For details, please refer to changes in th e consolidation scope in Note (6 ) to the financial 
statements. 
XIV. Self-evaluation Report on Internal Control or Internal Control Audit Report  
1. Self-evaluation Report on Internal Control  
Disclosure date of full text of self-evaluation report on internal control April 16th 2022 
Disclosure index of full text of self-evaluation report on internal control www.cninfo.com.cn 
Proportion of assets evaluated in total assets 100.00% 
Proportion of revenue evaluated in total revenue per consolidated financial statement 100.00% 
Recognition standard of deficiencies 
Nature Financial report level Non-financial report level 
Qualitative criteria 
Significant deficiency:  
A deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control 
may prevent significant errors in financial reports from being 
identified or prevented, e.g.: 
A. Invalid internal control environment; 
B. Fraud of directors, supervisors and senior management 
personnel on the financial report ; 
C. Significant errors identified by external auditors but not 
identified during the Company is operating; 
D. Invalid supervision of audit committee and internal audit 
system; 
E. Other deficiencies that may lead to the wrong judgement of 
financial statement reporter. 
Important deficiency:  
A deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control 
may prevent errors in financial report from being identified or 
prevented, although such deficiency is not significant, but 
require attention of the Board and Management, e.g.: 
A. Application of accounting policies does not follow the 
enterprise accounting standard; 
B. No internal control systems for fraud; 
C. No control systems or system not effective for unusual or 
special transactions or no compensatory relevant control; 
D. One or more deficiencies which prevent the preparation of 
Internal control deficiencies at non-
financial report level are mainly identified 
by the likelihood of occurrence and the 
extent of impacts on operating effective in 
business.  
Significant deficiency: the high likelihood 
leading to significant reduction of working 
efficiency, or significant increase of 
uncertainty, or significant deviation from 
the expected target; 
Important deficiency: a higher likelihood 
leading to remarkable reduction of 
working efficiency, or remarkable increase 
of uncertainty, or remarkable deviation 
from the expected target; 
Normal deficiency: a low likelihood 
leading to reduction of working efficiency, 
or increase of uncertainty, or deviation 
from the expected target; 
 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
181 
true and fair financial statements.  
Normal deficiency: Not significant and not important 
deficiency. 
 
Quantitative criteria 
Significant deficiency: potential errors 5% or more of total 
profits 
Important deficiency: potential errors 2% or more but below 
5% of total profits 
Normal deficiency: potential errors is 2% or less of total 
profits 
Significant deficiency: direct losses of 
assets is 5% or more of total profits 
Important deficiency: direct losses of 
assets is2% or more but below 5% of total 
profits 
Normal deficiency: direct losses of assets 
is below 2% of total profits 
Number of significant deficiencies in financial report level 0 
Number of significant deficiencies in non-financial report level 0 
Number of important deficiencies in financial report level 0 
Number of important deficiencies in non-financial report level 0 
2. Internal Control Audit Report  
√Applicable □Inapplicable  
Deliberation Opinion Paragraph in Internal Control Audit Report 
We believe that Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting in 
all material aspects as of December 31st 2021 in accordance with the Basic Standard for Enterprise Internal Control and other 
related regulations. 
Disclosure of internal control audit 
report  
Disclose 
Disclosure date of the full text of 
the internal control audit report 
April 16th 2022  
Disclosure index of full text of 
internal control audit report 
www.cninfo.com.cn  2021 Internal Control Audit Report 
Internal control audit opinion Standard unqualified audit opinion 
Whether there are material 
weakness of non-financial report 
No 
Whether the accounting firm issued an internal control audit report with a non-standard opinion 
□ Yes √ No  
 
XV. Special Rectification Actions for Self-inspected Problems of Listed Companies 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
182 
Section V Environmental and Social Responsibility 
I. Significant Environmental Issues 
Whether the Company or any of its subsidiaries should be categorized as a critical pollutant enterprises published 
by environmental protection department 
□Yes √No.  
II. Social Responsibilities 
For details, please refer to the Company’s 2021 Social Responsibility Report disclosed on CNINFO 
(www.cninfo.com.cn). 
III. The Achievements of Poverty Alleviation and Rural Revitalization 
During the reporting period, the Company did not conduct any targeted poverty alleviation and rural revitalization 
work.
                                                                                      Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
183 
Section VI Significant Events 
I. Performance of Commitments 
1. Complete and incomplete commitments of the Company and its actual controller, shareholders, related parties, acquirers, and other related 
parties for the commitments by the end of the reporting period. 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
Commitments in 
offering 
documents or 
shareholding 
alterations 
CETHIK Group Co., Ltd. 
Commitments 
regarding horizontal 
competition and 
related party 
transactions 
1. Commitments in non-competition within the industry: In the period as 
controlling shareholders of the Hikvision, CETHIK and its controlling 
subsidiaries (excluding Hikvision and its subsidiaries, the same below) will not 
be engaged in such business that is competitive to Hikvision and its 
subsidiaries directly or indirectly. 
2. Commitments in decrease and regulation of transactions with related party: 
Zhejiang Haikang Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Haikang Group 
or actual controller) as the controlling shareholders of Hangzhou Hikvision 
Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hikvision" or "Listed 
Company") are committed as below for the transactions with Hikvsion: 
(1) Haikang Group will not make use of the controlling power to offer more 
favorable conditions to Hikvision than those to any independent third party in 
any fair market transactions in the cooperation with Hikvision. 
(2) Haikang Group will not make use of the controlling power to obtain the 
prior right to complete the transaction with Hikvision. 
(3) Haikang Group will not deal with Hikvsion in not fair terms comparing to 
the market prices to prejudice the Company’s interests. 
 For unavoidable related transactions, the Company will observe the 
principles of justice and fairness to determine prices according to the market 
on the basis of equality, voluntarily. The Company will obey the Articles of 
Association and other regulatory documents related to the avoiding of issues 
October 29th  
2013 Long-term Strict 
performance  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
184 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
about related transactions. The related transactions will go through approval 
procedures in accordance with related rules and complete legal procedures, 
fulfilling the information disclosure obligations in respect to the related 
transactions 
3. Commitment to the maintenance of the independence of the listed Company 
3.1 Commitment to Personnel Independence of the listed Company 
(1) Commitment that our general manager, deputy general manager, chief 
financial officer, secretary of the board and other members of senior 
management shall not assume any positions other than directors and 
supervisors or get any remuneration in CETHIK and/or any of its controlled 
entities; (2) Commitment in keeping the management of labor, human 
resources and issues related to remuneration of the listed Company 
independent from that of CETHIK; 
3.2 Commitment to the independence of the asset of the listed Company 
(1) Commitment to independent and complete asset of the listed Company 
(2) Commitment free of unlawful use of cash and asset of the listed Company 
by the controlling shareholders    
3.3 Commitment to financial independence of the listed Company 
(1) Commitment to an independent finance department with a team and 
accounting system; 
(2) Commitment to a regulated, independent accounting system and financial 
management system of the branches and subsidiaries  
(3) Commitment to maintaining accounts with banks independently of and not 
sharing any bank account with our controlling shareholders 
(4) Commitment that the financial staff shall not assume any positions in 
CETHIK  
(5) Commitment to paying taxes independently according to the law; 
(6) Commitment to implementing financial decisions independently 
3.4 The Company has set up an independent organizational structure which 
maintains its independent operations which is independent from that of 
CETHIK. 
3.5 Commitment to business Independence of the listed Company 
(1) The Company has the asset, personnel, aptitude and management capability 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
185 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
for independent and complete business operation. The Company has the ability 
to operate independently in the market. 
(2) Commitment in independence in both business and operations 
4. Regarding plans for the development and relevant commitment for the listed 
Company, Haikang Group has committed as below for the subsequent 
development of Hikvsion according to the Securities Acts and relevant laws 
and rules,  
4.1 Currently the Company has no plan to change or make significant 
adjustments for principal business in the next 12 months;   
4.2 Currently the Company has no plan to sell, merge or operate with another 
Company for the assets and business of the listed Company or its subsidiaries 
in the next 12 months. 
4.3 Currently the Company has no plan to alter the Board of the Directors and 
senior management and no agreement with other shareholders about the 
appointment and removal of the directors or senior management. The team of 
Board of Directors and senior management will remain unchanged for the 
foreseeable future. 
4.4 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes to the 
Articles of Association for the listed Company. 
4.5 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes to the 
existing employee recruitment for the listed Company. 
4.6 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes for the 
dividend distribution plan for the listed Company. 
4.7 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes for 
business and organizational structure for the listed Company. 
Commitments in 
Initial Public 
Hangzhou Weixun 
Investment Management 
 
 
During Hu Yangzhong, Wu Weiqi, Jiang Haiqing, Zhou Zhiping, Xu Lirong, 
Cai Dingguo, He Hongli, Zheng Yibo, Hu Dan, Jiang Yufeng, Liu Xiang, 
May 17th  
2010 
Long term Strict 
performance 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
186 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
Offering or re-
financing  
Limited Partnership（later 
renamed as Xinjiang 
Weixun Investment 
Management Limited 
Partnership） 
 
Share restriction 
commitment 
Wang Ruihong, Chen Junke’s tenure of the Company’s Board of Directors, 
supervisors and senior management personnel, the annual transfer of 
Hikvision’s total shares should not exceed 25% of total number of shares held 
under Weixun; within 6 months after abovementioned personnel’s demission, 
should not transfer Hikvision’s shares held under Weixun. 
Hangzhou Kangpu 
Investment Limited 
Partnership（later renamed 
as Xinjiang Pukang 
Investment Limited 
Partnership） 
Share restriction 
commitment 
During Hu Yangzhong, Wu Weiqi, Gong Hongjia’s tenure of the Company’s 
Board of Directors, supervisors and senior management personnel, the annual 
transfer of Hikvision’s total shares should not exceed 25% of total number of 
shares held under Pukang; within 6 months after abovementioned personnel’s 
demission, should not transfer Hikvision’s shares held under Pukang. 
May 17th 
2010 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
The Company's directors, 
supervisors and executive: 
HuYangzhong, Wu Weiqi, 
Jiang Haiqing, Zhou 
Zhiping，Xu Lirong, Cai 
Dingguo, He Hongli, Zheng 
Yibo, Hu Dan, Jiang 
Yufeng, Liu Xiang, Wang 
Ruihong, Chen Junke  
 
 
Share restriction 
commitment 
During their tenure of the Company’s Board of Directors, supervisors and 
senior management personnel, the annual shares transfer should not exceed 
25% of total number of shares held under Weixun; within 6 months after their 
demission, they should not transfer their shares held under Weixun. 
May 17th 
2010 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Directors, executive officers 
of the Company: 
Hu Yangzhong, Wu Weiqi 
 
 
Share restriction 
commitment 
During their tenure of the Company’s Board of Directors, supervisors and 
senior management personnel, the annual shares transfer should not exceed 
25% of total number of shares held under Kangpu; within 6 months after their 
demission, they should not transfer their shares held under Kangpu. 
May 17th 
2010 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
The Company’s director 
Gong Hongjia’s spouse, 
 During Gong Hongjia’s tenure of the Company’s Board of Directors, 
supervisors and senior management personnel, Chen’s annual shares transfer 
 
May 17th 
Long-term 
Strict 
performance  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
187 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
Chen Chunmei   
Share restriction 
commitment 
should not exceed 25% of total number of shares held under Kangpu; within 6 
months after the demission of Gong Hongjia, Chen should not transfer her 
shares held under Kangpu. 
2010 
 
China Electronics 
Technology Group 
Corporation（later renamed 
as China Electronics 
Technology Group Co., 
Ltd.） 
Commitment to 
avoid horizontal 
competition 
To avoid any loss of the Company and other shareholders arising from any 
competing business, China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, the 
actual controller of the Company, issued Letters of non-competition on 18 
September, 2008.  
September 
18th 2008 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Gong Hongjia； 
Hangzhou Weixun 
Investment Management 
Limited Partnership（later 
renamed as Xinjiang 
Weixun Investment 
Management Limited 
Partnership）； 
Hangzhou Kangpu 
Investment Limited 
Partnership（later renamed 
as Xinjiang Pukang 
Investment Limited 
Partnership）；ZheJiang 
Orient Holdings Co., Ltd. 
Commitment to 
avoid horizontal 
competition 
To avoid any loss of the Company and other shareholders arising from any 
competing business, Gong Hongjia, Hangzhou WeiXun Investment 
Management Limited Partnership, ZheJiang Orient Holdings Co., Ltd. and 
Hangzhou KangPu Investment Management Limited Partnership, the 
promoters of the Company, issued Commitment Letters of non-competition in 
the same industry on 10 July, 2008. 
 
 
July 10th 2008 Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Whether the 
commitments is 
fulfilled in time 
 
Yes 
 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
188 
2. Where any profit forecast was made for any of the Company’s assets or projects and the current 
reporting period is still within the forecast period, the Company shall explain whether the 
performance of the asset or project reaches the profit forecast and why: 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
Commitments made by the Company's shareholders and counterparties in the operating performance of the 
reporting year 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
II. The Company’s Funds U sed by the Controlling Shar eholder or Other Related Parties for 
Non-operating Purposes 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the current reporting period. 
 
III. Illegal Provision of Guarantees for External Parties 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case in the current reporting period. 
 
IV. Explanation Given by the Board of Directors regarding the Latest “Non-standard Auditor’s 
Report” 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
V. Explanation G iven by the Board of Directors , Supervisory Committee and I ndependent 
Directors (if applicable) regarding the “Non -standard Auditor’s Report” Issued by the CPA 
Firm for the Current Reporting Period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
VI. For Changes in Accounting Policies, A ccounting Estimates or Correction of Significant 
Accounting Errors Compared with the Financial Report for the Prior Year 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
 
Since January 1st 2021 (the “First Adoption Date”), the Company has implemented the Accounting Standards 
for Business Enterprises No. 21 – Leases revised by the Ministry of Finance in 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
189 
“New Lease Standards,” and the Lease Standards before the revision referred to as the “Original Lease Standards”). 
The New Lease Standards refine the definition of a lease, and add content on the identification, splitting and merger 
of leases; eliminate the classification of leases by lessees as an operating lease or financing lease, and require the 
recognition of right-to-use assets and lease liabilities of all leases on the starting date of the lease term (excluding 
short-term leases and leases of low -value assets), with depreciation and interest expenses recognized separately; 
and improve the subsequent measurement of leases by lessees, add an accounting method in the instance of option 
revaluation and lease modification, and increase related disclosure requirements. In addition, they also widen the 
scope of disclosure of lessors. Please refer to N ote (III) 30 for the revised accounting policies of the Company on 
the recognition and measurement of leases as lessee and lessor. For contracts that existed prior to the First Adoption 
Date, the Company has elected not to reassess whether they were a lease or contained a lease as of the First Adoption 
Date. The Group adjusted the amount of retained earnings and other related items in the financial statements as at 
the First Adoption Date based on the cumulative impact of the first adoption of the New Lease Standards, without 
adjusting data for the comparative period. For operating leases other than low-value leases existing prior to the First 
Adoption Date, the Group has elected to apply one or more simplifications based on each lease option. 
Since January 1st 2021 (the “First Adoption Date”), the Company implemented the Interpretation No. 14 of the 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as “Interpretation No. 14”) promulgated by 
the Ministry of Finance on February 2 nd 2021. Interpretation No. 14 standardizes the accounting treatment for 
Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects by private capital parties. According to Interpretation No. 14，the Group 
will handle the accounting of new PPP projects from January 1st 2021 to the promulgation date in accordance with 
the provisions of Interpretation No. 14. The Group made retrospective adjustments to the relevant PPP project 
contracts implemented prior to December 31 st 2020 that were yet to be completed as of the promulgation date of 
Interpretation No. 14. The Group adjusted the amount of retained earnings and other related items in the financial 
statements as of January 1st 2021 based on the cumulative impact, without adjusting data for the comparative period. 
The New Lease Standards and Interpretation No. 14 did not have  a significant impact on the accounting 
recognition of the Company’s various businesses. Please see Note (III), 32 for details on the impact of adoption of 
the New Lease Standards and Interpretation No. 14 by the Group on January 1st 2021. 
VII. Explanation for Changes in Scope of the Consolidated Financial Statements as Compared 
to the Financial Report for the Prior Year 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
190 
During the reporting period, the Company has newly set up one wholly-owned subsidiaries and four holding 
subsidiaries, acquired two subsidiaries, added a new subsidiary due to the change in voting rights, liquidated and 
cancelled four subsidiaries, reduced one subsidiary due to the cancellation of the entrusted management agreement, 
which have caused the change in consolidation scope. For more details, please refer to Financial Report Note (VI) 
“Changes in consolidation scope” of the financial statement. 
 
VIII. Engagement and Disengagement of the CPA firm 
CPA firm engaged at present 
Name of the domestic CPA firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
Remuneration for the domestic CPA firm (RMB’0000) 400 
Consecutive years of the audit service provided by the 
domestic CPA firm 6 
Name of the certified public accountants from the 
domestic CPA firm Tang Lianjiong, Gao Sunchao 
Consecutive years of the audit service provided by the 
certified public accountants from the domestic CPA 
firm 
Tang Lianjiong has provided audit service for 3 consecutive years;  
Gao Sunchao has provided audit service for 1 consecutive year. 
Whether the CPA firm was changed in the current period 
□ Yes √ No 
Whether to reappoint a CPA firm during the audit 
□ Yes √ No 
Engagement of internal control audit CPA firm, financial advisor or sponsor 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable  
During the reporting period, the Company hired Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
as the internal control audit accounting firm, and paid a total of RMB 600,000 of financial consulting fees during 
the period. 
 
IX. Delisting after Disclosure of this Annual Report 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
X. Bankruptcy and Restructuring 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period. 
                                                                                      
Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
191 
XI. Material Litigations and Arbitration 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company had no material litigation or arbitration during the current reporting period. 
XII. Punishments and Rectifications 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period. 
XIII. Integrity of the Company and its Controlling Shareholders and Actual Controllers 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
192 
XIV. Significant Related-party Transaction 
1. Related-party Transactions Arising from Routine Daily Operations 
√ Applicable  □Inapplicable 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Subsidiaries or 
research institutes 
of CETC 
Under the common control 
of the Company’s actual 
controller  
Procurement 
Procurement, 
receiving 
services 
Reference 
market 
price; 
Agreed on 
price 
199,600.06 4.03% 270,000 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
August 
11th 2021 
Added 
Announcement 
on the forecast 
of daily 
related-party 
transactions 
in 2021 (No. 
2021-053) 
Shanghai Fullhan 
Micro Co., Ltd. and 
its subsidiaries  
The Company’s 
shareholder who holds 
more than 5% of the 
Company’s shares, Gong 
Hongjia, former director of 
the Company, is the 
director of the related 
party  
Procurement 107,344.71 2.17% 150,000 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Wuhu Sensor 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
An associated company 
held by the Company, Wu 
Weiqi, director of the 
Company, served as 
director of this company 
Procurement 12,015.40 0.24% 15,000 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
March 
13th 2021 
Announcement 
on the forecast 
of daily 
related-party 
transactions 
in 2021 (No. 
2021-024) 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
193 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Shenzhen Hikvision 
Urban Service 
Operation  Co., 
Ltd.and its 
subsidiaries 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company 
Procurement   3.10 0.00% 500 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Zhiguang Hailian 
Big Data 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
An associated company 
held by the Company 
Procurement   - 0.00% 500 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Zhejiang Haishi 
Huayue Digital 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company; The 
Company’s senior 
management is appointed 
as this company’s 
Chairman 
Procurement 
  - 0.00% 500 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Maxio Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
An associated company 
held by the Company, Wu 
Weiqi, director of the 
Company, served as 
director of this company 
Procurement 
  25,917.10 0.52% 27,000 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Aurotek 
Corporation. and its 
subsidiaries 
Cheng Tianzong, the 
former independent 
director of the Company, 
Procurement 
  327.79 0.01% 500 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
194 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
served as a director of this 
company. Cheng Tianzong 
resigned as an independent 
director on March 5th 
2021. Within 12 months 
after his resignation, 
Aurotek Corporation is 
still recognized as a related 
party of the Company. 
Yunnan Yinghai 
Parking Service 
Co., Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company 
Procurement 
  9.43 0.00% 50 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Chengdu 
Guoshengtianfeng 
Network 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
Senior management of the 
Company is appointed as 
directors of this company 
Procurement 
  7.47 0.00% 100 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Ruihua Innovation 
Management 
Research Institute 
(Hangzhou) Co., 
Ltd. 
Wu Xiaobo, an 
independent director of the 
Company, serves as a 
director of this company 
Procurement 
  0.36 0.00% 50 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
195 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Zhejiang City 
Digital Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company 
Procurement 
  0.18 0.00% 50 
No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Subsidiaries or 
research institutes 
of CETC 
Under the common control 
of the Company’s actual 
controller. 
Sales  
Providing 
services, 
selling 
products, 
commercial 
goods 
Reference 
market 
price; 
Agreed on 
price  
43,471.00 0.53% 70,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
March 
13th 2021 
Announcement 
on the forecast 
of daily 
related-party 
transactions 
in 2021 (No. 
2021-024) 
Jiaxin Haishi JiaAn 
Zhicheng 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
An associated company 
held by the Company 
Sales    5,322.96 0.07% 7,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Zhejiang City 
Digital Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company 
Sales    2,275.20 0.03% 6,000 No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Shenzhen Hikvision 
Urban Service 
Operation Co., Ltd. 
and its subsidiaries 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company 
 
Sales    2,097.52 0.03% 6,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Daishan Hailai 
Yunzhi Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
From January to June 
2021, it is still a joint 
venture held by the 
Company 
Sales    1,685.88 0.02% 5,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
196 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Guangxi Haishi 
Urban Operation 
Management Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company  
Sales    1,149.40 0.01% 2,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Zhejiang Haishi 
Huayue Digital 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company; The 
Company’s senior 
management is appointed 
as this company’s 
Chairman 
Sales   1,097.64 0.01% 5,000 
No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Wuhu Sensor 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
An associated company 
held by the Company, Wu 
Weiqi, director of the 
Company, served as 
director of this company 
Sales   84.13 0.00% 1,000 
No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Qinghai Qingtang 
Big Data Co., Ltd. 
An associated company 
held by the Company  
Sales    54.02 0.00% 1,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Xuzhou Kangbo 
Urban Operation 
Management 
Service Co., Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company 
Sales    16.58 0.00% 1,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Maxio Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., 
An associated company 
held by the Company, Wu 
Sales    11.83 0.00% 1,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
197 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
Weiqi, director of the 
Company, served as 
director of this company 
Sanmenxia Xiaoyun 
Vision Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
An associated company 
held by the Company 
Sales    0.57 0.00% 1,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Yunnan Yinghai 
Parking Service 
Co., Ltd. 
A joint venture company 
held by the Company Sales    - 0.00% 4,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Shenzhen Wanyu 
Security Service 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
The Company’s senior 
management is appointed 
as directors of this 
company 
Sales    - 0.00% 500  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Zhiguang Hailian 
Big Data 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
An associated company 
held by the Company 
Sales    3,412.21 0.04% 15,000  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
August 
11th 2021 
Added 
Announcement 
on the forecast 
of daily 
related-party 
transactions 
in 2021 (No. 
2021-053) 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
198 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
INESA (Group) 
Co., Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
The Company’s 
Supervisor is appointed  
as directors of the 
Company 
Sales   831.52 0.01% 1,500  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Chengdu 
Guoshengtianfeng 
Network 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
Senior management of the 
Company is appointed as 
directors of this company 
Sales   700.61 0.01% 1,500  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Hangzhou 
Confirmware 
Technology Co., 
Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
Senior management of the 
Company is appointed as 
directors of this company 
Sales   121.74 0.00% 300  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Zhejiang Fast Line 
data fusion 
Information 
Technology 
Co.,Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
Senior management of the 
Company is appointed as 
directors of this company 
Sales   29.32 0.00% 100  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
  
Total 407,587.73    593,150  - - - - 
Details on significant sales return None 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report                                                       
199 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Trading Amount 
（0’000 RMB） 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0’000 RMB） 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Total amount of related transactions projected based on 
different categories, and the actual performance during the 
current reporting period (if any) 
The related transaction of procurement with Maxio Technology (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, Aurotek Corporationand 
its subsidiaries, Yunnan Yinghai Parking Service Co., Ltd., Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng Network Technology Co., Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries, Ruihua Innovation Management Research Institute (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. and Zhejiang City Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd., and the related transaction of sales with INESA (Group) Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng Network 
Technology Co., Ltd. an d its subsidiaries, Hangzhou Confirmware Technology Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries, Zhejiang Fast Line 
data fusion Information Technology Co.,Ltd. and its subsidiaries were approved by the Chairman of the Company according to the 
Company’s Related Transaction Management System. 
Reasons on significant difference between trading price and 
market referencing price (if applicable)   
Not applicable 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
200 
2. Related-party Transactions regarding Purchase and Disposal of Assets or Equity 
□Applicable √Inapplicable  
No such case in the reporting period. 
3. Significant Related-party Transactions Arising from Joint Investments on External Parties 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
4. Related Credit and Debt Transactions 
□ Applicable √Inapplicable 
No related-parties’ creditor’s rights or debts during the reporting period. 
5. Transactions with Related Financial Companies 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
 
Deposit business 
Related Party Relationship 
Maximum 
daily deposit 
limit (0,000 
RMB) 
Deposit interest 
rate range 
Opening 
Balance (0,000 
RMB) 
Amount incurred (0,000 RMB) 
Closing 
Balance(0,000 
RMB) 
Total deposit 
amount for the 
current period 
(0,000 RMB) 
Total 
withdrawal 
amount for the 
current period 
(0,000 RMB) 
CETC Finance 
Co., Ltd. 
Under the 
common 
control of the 
Company's 
ultimate 
controller 
1,307,892.85 0.3%-2% 400,000.00 450,000.67 400,000.00 450,000.67 
 
Credit or other financial services 
Related Party Relationship Business Type  
Total Amount  
(0,000 RMB) 
Actual amount incurred 
(0,000 RMB)  
CETC Finance Co., Ltd. Under the common control of 
the Company's ultimate 
controller 
Credit 300,000.00 0 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
201 
6. Transactions between the Financial Company Controlled by the Company and Related Parties 
□ Applicable √Inapplicable 
There is no deposit, loan, credit or other financial business between the financial company controlled by the 
Company and its related parties. 
7. Other Significant Related Party Transactions 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
On April 18th 2019, the Proposal on Entering into the Entrusted Management Agreement and Related -Party 
Transaction with the Controlling Shareholder was deliberated and adopted by the 10th Meeting of the fourth session 
of the Board of Directors of the Company. On April 19th 2019, the Company entered into the Entrusted Management 
Agreement with CETHIK and Hangzhou EZVIZ Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as " EZVIZ 
Technology"), agreeing that CETHIK shall entrust EZVIZ Network to enforce the actual operation and management 
rights over its wholly-owned subsidiary EZVIZ Technology. On March 27th 2021, to further optimize the business 
process of EZVIZ Network, based on the actual production and operation needs of EZVIZ Network, and upon 
consensus of the three parties through amicable and full negotiation, EZVIZ Network signed the Termination 
Agreement of the Entrusted Management Agreement with CETHIK and EZVIZ Technology. EZVIZ Network will 
no longer exercise the actual operation and management rights over EZVIZ Technology or be responsible for the 
production, operation and management of EZVIZ Technology. 
On October 22nd 2021, the 6th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Directors of the Company reviewed 
and approved the Proposal on Investing in the Establishment of Entrepreneurship Investment Partnerships and 
Related Transactions, agreeing that the Company, CETHIK Group Co., Ltd., Hangzhou High-tech Venture Capital 
Management Co., Ltd. and CETHIK (Hangzhou) Equity Investment Management Co., Ltd. jointly invested and 
established Hangzhou Haina Yuzhi Entrepreneurship Investment Partnership Co,. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
"Haina Yuzhi Fund"). The scale of Haina Yuzhi Fund is RMB 600 million, of which Hikvision, as a limited partner, 
invested RMB 400 million yuan in currency, holdin g 66.6666% of the total shares. During the reporting period, 
Haina Yuzhi Fund completed the industrial and commercial registration procedures and fundraising work, raised a 
total of RMB 600 million of funds. 
Disclosure website for provisional reports on significant related-party transactions:  
Title of provisional reports  Disclosure date  Disclosure website 
Announcement on the Signing of the "Entrusted Management Agreement" 
and Related Party Transactions with the Controlling Shareholders 
April 20th 2019 www.cninfo.com.cn   
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
202 
Title of provisional reports  Disclosure date  Disclosure website 
(Announcement No. 2019-026) 
Announcement on the Signing of the "Entrusted Management Agreement" 
Termination Agreement and Related Party Transactions Progress 
(Announcement No. 2021-025) 
March 30th 2021 www.cninfo.com.cn   
Announcement on Investing in the Establishment of Entrepreneurship 
Investment Partnerships and Related Transactions (Announcement No. 
2021-064) 
October 23rd 2021 www.cninfo.com.cn 
Announcement on the Completion of the Industrial and Commercial 
Registration of the Entrepreneurship Investment Partnership Enterprise 
Co-established by the Company (Announcement No. 2021-067) 
December 10th 2021 www.cninfo.com.cn 
Announcement on the Completion of the Fundraising of the 
Entrepreneurship Investment Partnership Enterprise Co-established by 
the Company (Announcement No. 2021-077) 
December 31st 2021 www.cninfo.com.cn 
XV. Significant Contracts and Their Execution 
1. Trusteeship, Contracting and Leasing 
(1) Trusteeship 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
(2) Contracting 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
(3) Leasing 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
On December 3rd 2018, the Proposal on Carrying out Financial Leasing Related Party Transactions between 
the Holding Innovative Business Subsidiary and China Electronics Technology Le asing Co. Ltd. was approved at 
the 7th meeting of the 4th Board of Directors of the Company. In 2019, the Company's holding subsidiary Hangzhou 
Hikmicro Sensing Technology Co., Ltd. and China Electronics Technology Leasing Co. Ltd. signed the Financial 
Leasing Contract, where H ikMicro used some of its own equipment to start leaseback business with China 
Electronics Technology Leasing Co. Ltd.; the financing amount was RMB 70 million, term of lease 48 months and 
annual lease rate 3.80%. For details, please refer to Note (X) 5, (4) other related party transactions to the financial 
statements. 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
203 
2. Significant Guarantees 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB’0000 
Guarantees provided by the Company to its subsidiaries 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
Cap 
Actual 
occurrence 
date  
Actual 
guaranteed 
amount 
Type of guarantee Term of guarantee Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related 
party or not 
Hangzhou Hikvision Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 1,010,000 
December 1st 
2019  
409,072.80 Joint guarantee 2019.12.01-2025.09.25 No  Yes  
Chongqing Hikvision Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 82,250 
March 23rd  
2020 
1,275.00 Joint guarantee 
2020.03.23-2022.03 
22 
No  Yes  
Hikvision Singapore Pte. Ltd. April 17th 2021 78,900 July 15th 2021 44,777.21 Joint guarantee 2021.07.15-2029.01.07 No  Yes  
Hangzhou Hikvision System 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 46,000 
March 23rd 
2021 
13,086.36 Joint guarantee 2021.03.23-2023.12.31 No  Yes  
Urumqi HaiShi Xin’An Electronic 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 40,000 
March 
29th2019 
24,550.43 Joint guarantee 2019.03.26-2028.06.20 No  Yes  
Pi Shan HaiShi Yong An Electronic 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 30,000 
March 26th 
2019 
21,578.00 Joint guarantee 2019.03.26-2040.06.26 No  Yes  
Luo Pu HaiShi Ding Xin Electronic 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 30,000 
March 26th 
2019 
22,160.00 Joint guarantee 2019.03.26-2035.06.26 No  Yes  
Yu Tian HaiShi Mei Tian Electronic 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 30,000 
March 26th 
2019 
9,560.00 Joint guarantee 2019.03.26-2034.03.26 No  Yes  
Hangzhou Hikvision Electronics 
Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 25,000 
March 6th 
2021 
403.63 Joint guarantee 2021.03.06-2022.03.05 No  Yes  
 Mo Y u HaiShi Electronic 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 25,000 
March 26th 
2019 
17,680.00 Joint guarantee 2019.03.26-2035.03.26 No  Yes  
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
204 
Hikvision Europe B.V. April 17th 2021 2,000 
August 9th 
2021 
2,000.00 Joint guarantee 2021.08.09-2022.03.31 No  Yes  
Hikvision International Co., Ltd. April 17th 2021 33,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Xi’an Hikvision Digital Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 20,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Chengdu Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 20,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Shijiazhuang Hikvision Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 20,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Wuhan Hikvision Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 20,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Shanghe Smart City Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 20,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Zhenping Haikang Juxin Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 18,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Chongqing Hikvision System 
Technology Co., Ltd.  
April 17th 2021 10,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Nanjing Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 10,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Nanchang Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 10,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Zhengzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 10,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Hefei Hikvision Digital Technology 
Co., Ltd 
April 17th 2021 10,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
.Prama Hikvision India Private April 17th 2021 6,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
205 
Limited 
Hikvision USA Inc. April 17th 2021 2,100 Not happened during the reporting period 
PT. Hikvision Technology 
Indonesia 
April 17th 2021 1,400 Not happened during the reporting period 
Hikvision Turkey Technology And 
Security Systems Commerce JSC 
April 17th 2021 350 Not happened during the reporting period 
Total guarantee cap for subsidiaries approved during the reporting 
period(B1) 
1,610,000.00 
Total actual guarantee amount 
for subsidiaries during the 
reporting period(B2) 
630,940.81 
Total approved guarantee cap for subsidiaries at the end of the reporting 
period(B3) 1,610,000.00 
Total actual guarantee balance 
for subsidiaries at the end of the 
reporting period(B4) 
566,143.43 
Guarantees provided by the Company’s subsidiary to another subsidiary 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
Cap 
Actual 
occurrence 
date  
Actual 
guaranteed 
amount 
Type of guarantee Term of guarantee 
Fulfilled or 
not 
Guarantee for 
a related 
party or not 
Hangzhou Haikang Intelligent 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 50,000 
June 25th 2021 
934.60 Joint guarantee 
2021.06.25-
2023.06.24 
No Yes 
Hangzhou Hikmicro Intelligent 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
April 17th 2021 30,000 
June 15th 2021 
878.40 Joint guarantee 
2021.06.15-
2023.06.13 
No Yes 
Hangzhou Hikstorage Technology 
Co., Ltd.  
April 17th 2021 10,000 Not happened during the reporting period 
Total guarantee cap for subsidiaries approved during the reporting period 
(C1) 
90,000.00 
Total actual guarantee amount 
for subsidiaries during the 
reporting period (C2) 
1,836.76 
Total approved guarantee cap for subsidiaries at the end of the reporting 
period（C3） 
90,000.00 Total actual guarantee balance 
for subsidiaries at the end of the 
1,813.00 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
206 
reporting period(C4) 
The total amount of Company’s guarantees (that is, the total of the first three items) 
Total guarantee cap approved during the reporting period（A1+B1+C1） 1,700,000.00 
Total actual guarantee amount 
during the reporting period
（A2+B2+C2） 
632,777.57 
Total approved guarantee cap at the end of reporting period
（A3+B3+C3） 
1,700,000.00 
Total actual guarantee balance at 
the end of the reporting period
（A4+B4+C4） 
567,956.43 
Portion of the total actual guarantee (A4+B4+C4) amount in net assets of 
the Company 
8.95% 
Of which: 
The balance of guarantee for shareholders, actual controllers and their 
affiliates. (D) 
0 
Amount of debt guarantees provided directly or indirectly for entities with 
a liability-to-asset ratio over 70% (E) 
544,906.44 
Total amount of guarantee exceeding 50% of net assets (F) 0 
Total guarantee amount of the above-mentioned 3 kinds of guarantees 
(D+E+F) 
544,906.44 
 
3. Entrusted Others to Manage Cash Assets 
(1) Entrusted financial management 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable  
No such case during the reporting period 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
207 
(2) Entrusted loan management 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable  
No such case during the reporting period 
4. Other Significant Contracts 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period 
 
 
XVI. Other Significant Events 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
On January 8th 2021, the Proposal on Adjustment of Domestic Listing Board for the Spin-off of the Company’s Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd., 
the Proposal on the Spin-off of the Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. to be Listed on the Science and Technology Innovation Board  and other related 
proposals were deliberated and adopted by the 21st Meeting of the fourth session of the  Board of Directors and the 18th Meeting of the fourth session of the Board of 
Supervisors of the Company, agreeing the initial public offering of ordinary shares (A shares) in RMB of EZVIZ Network after the shareholding reform and listing of 
EZVIZ Network on the science and technology innovation board of Shanghai Stock Exchange. For details, please refer to the Proposal of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. on the Spin-off of its Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. to be Listed on the Science and Technology Innovation Board issued by the 
Company on January 9th 2021. On August 10th 2021, the 4th meeting of the fifth session of the Board of Directors and the 4th meeting of the fifth session of the Board 
of Supervisors of the Company deliberated on and approved relevant proposals including the Proposal for Deliberation on the Proposal of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. to Split Off and List Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. on the Science and Technology Innovati on Board (Revised). Please see the 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
208 
Proposal of Hangzhou Hikvision Digita l Technology Co., Ltd. to Split Off and List Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. on the Science and Technology 
Innovation Board (Revised) published by the Company on August 11 th 2021 for details. On September 27 th 2021, the second extraordinary gen eral meeting of the 
Company in 2021 deliberated on and approved the proposal to spin off and list Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. on the Science and Technology Innovation Board. 
Please see the Announcement on Resolutions of the Second Extraordinary Genera l Meeting of 2021 (Announcement No.: 2021-058) published by the Company on 
September 28th 2021 for details. 
On December 30th 2021, the 7th meeting of the fifth session of the Board of Directors of the Company deliberated on and approved the Proposal on Aut horizing 
Company Management to Begin Preparatory Work for the Split-off and Domestic Listing of Subsidiary Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd., which authorized 
the management of the Company to begin preparatory work for the Split-off and domestic listing of subsidiary Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter 
referred to as “HikRobot”). After the completion of the Split -off and listing, the Company will maintain control over HikRobot. Please see the Announcement on 
Authorizing Company Manageme nt to Begin Preparatory Work for the Split -off and Domestic Listing of Subsidiary Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. 
(Announcement No.: 2021-074) published by the Company on December 31st 2021 for details. 
 
XVII. Significant Events of the Company’s Subsidiaries 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
During the reporting period, the Company steadily promoted the spin-off of EZVIZ Network to be listed on the Science and Technology Innovation B oard of 
Shanghai Stock Exchange. On January 8 th 2021, the Proposal on the Spin-off of the Company’s Subsidiary Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. to be Listed on the 
Science and Technology Innovation Board was deliberated and adopted by the 21st Meeting of the fourth session of the Board of Directors and the 18th Meeting of the 
fourth session of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. On June 23rd 2021, the Proposal on the Overall Restructuring of the the Company’s Holding Subsidiary 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. as Limited Liability Company by Shares was deliberated and adopted by the 3rd Meeting of the Strategy Committee in 2021 of the 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
209 
fifth session of the Board of Directors of the Company. On June 24th 2021, EZVIZ Network as a whole was restructured and changed to a limited liability company by 
shares. On July 2 nd 2021, Zhejiang Securities Regulatory Bureau of China Securities Regulatory Commission accep ted the application filed by EZVIZ Network for 
initial public offering of A shares and pre-listing counseling for listing on the Science and Technology Innovation Board. On August 10th 2021, the 4th meeting of the 
5th session of the Board of Directors and the 4th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Supervisors reviewed and approved the Proposal on the Initial Public Share 
Offering and Listing on the STAR Market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange of the Subsidiary, Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. (r evised draft). On September 27 th 
2021, the Company's second extraordinary general meeting in 2021 reviewed an d approved the proposal to spin -off EZVIZ Network to be listed on the Science and 
Technology Innovation Board. On December 13 th 2021, EZVIZ Network submitted the application materials for the initial public shares offering and listing on the 
STAR Market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange. On January 11th 2022, the Shanghai Stock Exchange issue the Inquiry Letter on Review of Application Documents for 
Initial Public Share Offering and Listing on the Science and Technology Innovation Board  (Shang Zheng Ke Shen (Review) [2022] No. 11), decided to accept the 
application and review it in accordance with the law. EZVIZ Network has submitted the Reply to the Inquiry Letter on the Review of Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., 
Ltd.'s Application Documents for Initial Public Share Offering and Listing on the Science and Technology Innovation Board  on March 15 th 2022, and is currently 
updating the 2021 financial statements. The above spin-off matters are subject to (including but not limited to) the approval of the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the 
implementation of the issuance registration procedures of the China Securities Regulatory Commission.
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
210 
Section VII Changes in Shares and Information about Shareholders 
I.  Changes in Share Capital  
1. Table of Changes in Share Capital 
Unit: Share 
 
Before the change Changes in the period (+, -) After the change 
Shares Ratio 
New 
Shares 
Issued 
Bonus 
share 
Share 
transferred 
from 
capital 
reserve 
Others Sub-total Shares Ratio 
1. Shares subject to conditional 
restriction(s) 
1,248,025,260  13.36%    -1,032,710,690 -1,032,710,690 215,314,570 2.31% 
1)State holdings          
2)Shares held by State-owned 
corporate  
         
3) Other domestic shares 306,488,295  3.28%    -91,288,265 -91,288,265 215,200,030 2.31% 
Including: held by domestic 
corporates 
         
        held by domestic 
natural person 
306,488,295  3.28%    -91,288,265 -91,288,265 215,200,030 2.31% 
4) Foreign shares 941,536,965  10.08%    -941,422,425 -941,422,425 114,540 0.00% 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
211 
 
Before the change Changes in the period (+, -) After the change 
Shares Ratio 
New 
Shares 
Issued 
Bonus 
share 
Share 
transferred 
from 
capital 
reserve 
Others Sub-total Shares Ratio 
Including: held by overseas 
corporates 
         
held by overseas natural 
person 
941,536,965  10.08%    -941,422,425 -941,422,425 114,540 0.00% 
2. Shares without restriction 8,095,391,930  86.64%    1,025,099,614 1,025,099,614 9,120,491,544 97.69% 
1) RMB ordinary shares 8,095,391,930  86.64%    1,025,099,614 1,025,099,614 9,120,491,544 97.69% 
2) Domestically listed foreign shares          
3) Foreign shares listed overseas          
4) Others          
3. Total 9,343,417,190  100.00%    -7,611,076 -7,611,076 9,335,806,114 100.00% 
 
Reason for the changes in share capital  
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
Partial Repurchase and Cancellation of the Restricted Share Scheme 
On December 25th 2020, the Proposal on the Third Repurchase and Cancellation of the Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the Restricted Share 
Incentive Scheme of 2016 and the Proposal on the First Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the Restricted Share 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
212 
Incentive Scheme of 2018 were deliberated and adopted by the 20th Meeting of the fourth session of the Board of Directors and the 17th Meeting of the fourth session 
of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. According to the authorization of the 2nd Extraordinary General Meeting of 2016 and the 2nd Extraordinary General 
Meeting of 2018 of the Company, the Board of Directors agreed to repurchase and cancel some of the granted but unvested restricted share that did not meet the 
conditions for share incentive. On March 5th 2021, the Proposal on the Third Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the 
Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2016 and the Proposal on the First Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the 
Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2018 were deliberated and adopted by the 1st Extraordinary General Meeting in 2021. On June 30th 2021, the Company has 
completed the repurchase and cancellation procedures for the above 7,611,076 restricted shares. The total share capital of the Company was reduced by 7,611,076 
shares from 9,343,417,190 shares to 9,335,806,114 shares. 
Approval for changes in share capital 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
On December 25th 2020, the Proposal on the Third Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the Restricted Share 
Incentive Scheme of 2016 and the Proposal on the First Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the Restricted Share 
Incentive Scheme of 2018 were deliberated and adopted by the 20th Meeting of the fourth session of the Board of Directors and the 17th Meeting of the fourth session 
of the Board of Supervisors of the Company. According to the authorization of the 2nd Extraordinary General Meeting of 2016 and the 2nd Extraordinary General 
Meeting of 2018 of the Company, the Board of Directors agreed to repurchase and cancel 7,611,076 shares of the granted but unvested restricted shares that did not 
meet the conditions for share incentive. On March 5th 2021, the Proposal on the Third Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under 
the Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2016 and the Proposal on the First Repurchase and Cancellation of Granted but Unvested Restricted Shares under the 
Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2018 were deliberated and adopted by the 1st Extraordinary General Meeting in 2021. 
Transfer for changes in share capital 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
213 
On June 30th 2021, the third repurchase and cancellation under the Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2016 and the first repurchase and cancellation under the 
Restricted Share Incentive Scheme of 2018 were completed, and the total share capital of the Company was reduced by 7,611,076 shares from 9,343,417,190 shares to 
9,335,806,114 shares.  
 
Effects of changes in share capital on the basic earnings per sha re ("EPS"), diluted EPS, net assets per share attributable to common shareholders of the 
Company, and other financial indexes over the last year and last period 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
Other contents that the Company considers necessary or required by the securities regulatory authorities to disclose 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
2. Changes in Restricted Shares 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: Share 
Name of 
shareholder Opening restricted shares Increased in current period Vested in current period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Date of unlocking 
Hu Yangzhong 136,591,708 48,150 0 136,639,858 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
According to the 
relevant regulations on 
the management of 
executive shares 
Grantees of 
restricted share 
incentive plan 
143,170,198  66,796,439 68,762,683 
Equity Incentive Restricted 
Shares 
January 20th 2021 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
214 
Name of 
shareholder Opening restricted shares Increased in current period Vested in current period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Date of unlocking 
(consolidated) 
Wu Weiqi 8,483,992 44,550 0 8,528,542 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
According to the 
relevant regulations on 
the management of 
executive shares 
Huang Fanghong 191,875 44,000 0 235,875 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Xu Lirong 194,400 32,850 0 227,250 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
He Hongli 207,225 41,400 0 248,625 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Pu Shiliang 77,105 84,820  0 161,925 Restricted shares for senior 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
215 
Name of 
shareholder Opening restricted shares Increased in current period Vested in current period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Date of unlocking 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Jin Yan 50,800 96,200  0 147,000 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Bi Huijuan 36,750 94,200  0 130,950 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Jin Duo 49,275 32,850  0 82,125 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Cai Changyang  49,275 32,850  0 82,125 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
216 
Name of 
shareholder Opening restricted shares Increased in current period Vested in current period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Date of unlocking 
shares for senior 
executives 
Xu Ximing 0 29,550  0 29,550 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Wang Qiuchao 26,250 0  0 26,250 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives  
Qu Liyang  11,812 0  0 11,812 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives  
Gong Hongjia 762,461,110 200,043,704 962,504,814 0 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives 
September 7th 2021 
Jiang Haiqing 7,718,761 36,900 7,755,661 0 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
September 22nd 2021 
Jia Yonghua 3,303,858 32,850 3,336,708 0 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
217 
Name of 
shareholder Opening restricted shares Increased in current period Vested in current period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Date of unlocking 
Li Pan 3,184,688 32,850 3,217,538 0 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Fu Baijun 266,250 165,750 432,000 0 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Jiang Yufeng 207,225 118,275 325,500 0 
Restricted shares for senior 
executives + partial of the 
unlocked restricted shares 
turning into restricted 
shares for senior 
executives 
Total 1,066,282,557 201,011,749 1,044,368,660 215,314,570 -- -- 
Note:  
1. Executives who are grantees under incentive restricted shares scheme, his/her holding incentive restricted shares are counted within the total incentive restricted 
shares (consolidated statistics) on the second row. 
2. The difference of 7,611,076 shares between ending balance of restricted shares of total incentive restricted shares (consolidated) for grantees and the calculated 
balance (opening balance + increased restricted shares - unlocked shares) was due to repurchasing and cancelling of 7,611,076 shares on June 30th 2021.  
3. The three executives Jiang Haiqing, Jia Yonghua and Li Pan have left office on October 25th 2019. The original term of office expires on March 21st 2021, and the 
shares held by them were released from restriction in accordance with the relevant regulations.  
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
218 
4. Gong Hongjia left the position as a director o f the Company on March 5 th 2021 as his term of office expires, and Fu Baijun and Jiang Yufeng left the position as 
senior executives of the Company on March 12 th 2021 as their terms of office expires. The shares held by them were released from restriction in accordance with 
relevant regulations. 
II. Issuance and Listing of Securities  
1. Securities (exclude Preferred Share) Issued during the Reporting Period 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
2. Explanation on Changes in Share Capital & the Structure of Shareholders, the Structure of Assets and Liabilities 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
On June 30th 2021, the Company completed the third repurchasing and cancelling shares for 2016 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme and the first repurchasing 
and cancelling sha res for 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme,  a total of 7,611,076 shares. The total capital shares were decreased by 7,611,076 shares from 
9,343,417,190 shares to 9,335,806,114 shares. The shareholder structure, assets and liabilities of the Company did not change significantly after completing the above 
mentioned items. 
 
3. Existent Shares Held by Internal Staff of the Company 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
III. Particulars about the Shareholders and Actual Controller 
1. Total Number of Shareholders and Their Shareholdings 
Unit: Share 
Total number of common shareholders at the 
end of the reporting period 
276,009 
The total number of ordinary shareholders at the end of the previous month before 
the disclosure date of the annual report 
308,098 
Particulars about shares held by shareholders with a shareholding percentage over 5% or the Top 10 of them 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
219 
Name of shareholder 
Nature of 
shareholder 
Share-holding 
percentage 
(%) 
Total common 
shares held at the 
end of the reporting 
period 
Increase/decreas
e during the 
reporting period 
The number 
of shares held 
with trading 
restrictions 
The number of shares 
held without trading 
restrictions 
Pledged or marked or frozen 
Status Amount 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group 
Co., Ltd. 
State-owned 
corporation 36.46% 3, 403,879,509 229,017,747  0 3, 403,879,509 Pledged 50,000,000  
Gong Hongjia 
Overseas 
individual 
10.31% 962,504,814 -54,110,000  0 962,504,814 Pledged 117,220,000  
Xinjiang Weixun 
Investment Management 
Limited Partnership 
Domestic non-
state-owned 
corporation 
4.83% 450,795,176 0  0 450,795,176 Pledged 17,810,000  
CETC Investment 
Holdings Co., Ltd. 
State-owned 
corporation 2.49% 232,307,903 225,210,747 0 232,307,903 - - 
Shanghai Gaoyi Asset 
Management Partnership 
(Limited Partnership) - 
Gaoyi Adjacent Mountain 
1 Yuanwang Fund 
Other 2.18% 203,800,000 -46,200,000 0 203,800,000 - - 
Xinjiang Pukang 
Investment Limited 
Partnership 
Domestic non-
state-owned 
corporation 
1.95% 182,510,174 0  0 182,510,174 Pledged 75,880,000 
The 52nd Research 
Institute at China 
Electronics Technology 
Group Corporation 
State-owned 
corporation 1.94% 180,775,044 0  0 180,775,044 - - 
Hu Yangzhong 
Domestic 
Individual 
1.66% 155,246,477 -26,940,000  136,639,858 18,606,619 - - 
Bank of China Co., Ltd. - 
Efunds Blue Chip Select 
Other 1.36% 127,000,036 57,000,011 0 127,000,036 - - 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
220 
Hybrid Securities 
Investment Fund 
CITIC Securities Co., 
Ltd. 
State-owned 
corporation 0.97% 90,242,182 -13,400,429 0 90,242,182 - - 
Explanation on associated relationship or 
concerted actions among the above-mentioned 
shareholders: 
China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd., China Electronics Technology Investment Holdings Co., Ltd. and The 52nd Research 
Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Co., Ltd. are all subject to control of China Electronics Technology Group Co. Ltd.. Ms. 
Chen Chunmei, limited partner of Xinjiang Pukang Investment Limited Partnership, is the spouse of Mr. Gong Hongjia, foreign individual 
shareholder of the Company. Hu Yangzhong, domestic individual, is holding shares in both Xinjiang Weixun Investment Management 
Limited Partnership and Xinjiang Pukang Investment Limited Partnership. 
Except for these, the Company does not know whether the other shareholders are related parties or whether they are acting-in-concert parties 
in accordance with the Measures for Management of the Disclosure of the Shareholding Changes of Shareholders of the Listed Company.  
Particulars about shares held by the Top 10 shareholders holding shares that are not subject to trading restriction(s) 
Name of shareholder 
Number of shares without trading 
restrictions held at the period-end 
Type of shares 
Type Number 
China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd. 3, 403,879,509 RMB common shares 3, 403,879,509 
Gong Hongjia  962,504,814 RMB common shares 962,504,814 
Xinjiang Weixun Investment Management Limited Partnership 450,795,176 RMB common shares 450,795,176 
CETC Investment Holdings Co., Ltd. 232,307,903 RMB common shares 232,307,903 
Shanghai Gaoyi Asset Management Partnership (Limited Partnership) - 
Gaoyi Adjacent Mountain 1 Yuanwang Fund 
203,800,000 RMB common shares 203,800,000 
Xinjiang Pukang Investment Limited Partnership 182,510,174 RMB common shares 182,510,174 
The 52nd Research Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Co. 
Ltd. 
180,775,044 RMB common shares 180,775,044 
Bank of China Co., Ltd. - Efunds Blue Chip Select Hybrid Securities 
Investment Fund 
127,000,036 RMB common shares 127,000,036 
CITIC Securities Company Limited 90,242,182 RMB common shares 90,242,182 
Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd.(HKSCC) 86,131,607 RMB common shares 86,131,607 
                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
221 
Explanation on associated relationship and 
concerted actions among top ten shareholders 
holding shares without trading restrictions, and 
among top ten shareholders and top ten 
shareholders holding shares without trading 
restrictions 
China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd., China Electronics Technology Investment Holdings Co., Ltd. and The 52nd Research 
Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Co., Ltd. are all subject to control of China Electronics Technology Group Co. Ltd. Ms. 
Chen Chunmei, limited partner of Xinjiang Pukang Investment Limited Partnership, is the spouse of Mr. Gong Hongjia, foreign individual 
shareholder of the Company. Hu Yangzhong, domestic individual, is holding shares in both Xinjiang Weixun Investment Management 
Limited Partnership and Xinjiang Pukang Investment Limited Partnership. 
Except for these, the Company does not know whether the other shareholders are related parties or whether they are acting-in-concert 
parties in accordance with the Measures for Management of the Disclosure of the Shareholding Changes of Shareholders of the Listed 
Company. 
Any of the Company’s top 10 common shareholders or top 10 non-restricted common shareholders conducted any agreed buy-back in the reporting period? 
□ Yes √ No    
No such case during the current reporting period.  
 
2. Particulars about Controlling Shareholder of the Company 
Nature of the controlling shareholder: Central State-owned 
Type of the actual controller: Corporation 
Name of controlling 
shareholder 
Legal Representative 
/People in charge Date of establishment Organization code Business scope 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK 
Group Co., Ltd. 
Chen Zongnian November 29th 2002 9133000014306073XD 
Industrial investment; R&D of environmental protection products, network 
products, intelligent products and electronic products; technology transfer, 
technical services, manufacturing and sales; business consulting services, 
rental services of self-owned real estate; import and export businesses.  
Shares held by the controlling shareholder 
in other listed companies 
through controlling or holding during the reporting period 
Indirect control of domestic listed company Phoenix Optical Co. Ltd.,  
Change of the controlling shareholder during the reporting period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company's controlling shareholder has not changed during the reporting period.
                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
222 
3. Particulars about the Company’s Actual Controller & Concerted Parties 
Nature of the actual controller: Central state-owned assets management agency 
Type of the actual controller: Corporation 
 
Name of the 
actual 
controller 
Legal 
Representative  
/People in 
charge 
Date of 
establishment 
Organization 
code Business scope 
China Electronics 
Technology 
Group Ltd. 
Chen 
Zhaoxiong 
February 25th 
2002 
91110000710929498G  
The Company  is responsible for the development and 
manufacturing of military electronic equipment and systems 
integration, electronic equipment for weapon platform, 
military software and electronic basic products; and the 
construction of national defense electronic i nformation 
infrastructure and safeguard conditions; construction of 
national major electronic information system; the research, 
development, production and sales of civil electronic 
information software, materials, components, equipment and 
system integrat ion and related common technology; self -
operated and agent import and export business of various 
commodities and technologies (except for goods and 
technologies that are restricted or restricted by the state -
limited company); operating feed processing and "three 
comes one supplement" business; operating counter trade and 
entrepot trade; Industrial investment; asset management; 
engaged in e-commerce information services; organization of 
enterprises in the industry to go abroad, participate in 
exhibitions. (Market entities independently choose business 
projects and carry out business activities in accordance with 
the law; for projects subject to approval according to law, 
business activities are carried out according to the approved 
content after approval by relevant departments; the Company 
cannot engage in business activities of projects prohibited or 
restricted by national and municipal industrial policies.) 
Shares held by the actual 
controlling shareholder in 
other listed companies through 
controlling or holding during the 
reporting period 
China Electronics Technology Group Ltd. is the actual controller of fourteen domestic listed companies 
including Sun Create Electronic Co., Ltd, CETC Digital Technology Co., Ltd, Chengdu Westone 
Information Industry Co.,  Ltd., GCI Science & Technology Co., Ltd., Tai ’ji Computer Corporation 
Limited, GLARUN Technology Co., Ltd. , Phoenix Optics Co., Ltd., Chengdu Tianao Electronic Co., 
Ltd., CETC Acoustic-Optic-Electronic Technology Inc., Hebei Sinopack Electronic Technology Co.,Ltd., 
Eastern Communications Co.,Ltd., Eastcompeace Technology Co.,Ltd., Nanjing Putian 
Telecommunications Co., Ltd. and Chengdu Putian Telecommunications Cable Company Limited and etc. 
Whether there are shareholders with a shareholding proportion of more than 10% at the final control level of the 
Company 
□ Yes √ No 
Change of the actual controller during the reporting period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such change during the reporting period.  
 
The ownership and controlling relationship between the actual controller of the Company and the Company is detailed 
as follows: 
 
                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
223 
 
The actual controller controls the Company through trust or other asset management methods 
□ Applicable √ Not applicable 
 
4. The Company 's Controlling S hareholder or the Largest Shareholder and its Concerted Action Person's 
Cumulative Pledged Shares Account for 80% of the Company's Shares Held by Them 
□ Applicable √ Not applicable 
 
5. Particulars about Other Corporate Shareholders with Shareholding Proportion over 10% 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
6. Particulars on Shareholding Decrease Restrictions for the Controlling Shareholders, Actual Controller, 
Restructurer or Other Committing Parties 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
IV. The Specific Implementation of Share Repurchase during the Reporting Period 
Implementation progress of share repurchase 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
  

                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
224 
 
Section VIII Information of Preferred Shares 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no preferred share existed for the Company during the current reporting period. 
 
 
                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
225 
 
Section IX Bonds 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
226 
 
Section X Financial Report 
Audit Report 
Audit Opinion Standard unqualified audit opinion 
Audit Report sign-off Date April 14th 2022 
Audit Institution Name Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
Audit Report Number Deloitte Auditors’ Report (Audit) No. 22- P02724 
Certified Public Accounts Name Tang Lianjiong, Gao Sunchao 
 
To all shareholders of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.: 
1. Audit Opinion 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
(hereinafter referred to as “Hikvision" or “The Group”), including consolidated and parent company's balance sheet as of 
December 31st 2021, consolidated and parent company's income statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes 
in owners’ equity of 2021 as well as relevant financial notes to financial statements. 
In our opinion, the financial statements annexed have been prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards for 
Business Enterprises in all material respects and they present fairly the consolidated and parent company ’s financial 
position of Hikvision as of December 31 st 2021 and consolidated and parent company’s financial performance and cash 
flows of 2021. 
2. Basis of Opinion 
We have conducted our audit in accordance with the Auditing Standards for Chinese Certified Public Accountants. 
“Responsibilities of Certified Public Accountants for Fina ncial Statements Audit” in the audit r eport further states our 
responsibilities under the standards. As per the code of ethics of Chinese certified public accountants, we are independent 
from Hikvision and have implemented other responsibilities as required by the code of ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have acquired is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 
3. Key Matters 
Key matters are matters we deem the most significant to the financial statements audit for the current period based 
on our professional judgment. These matters are handled based on the financial statements audit as a whole and the audit 
opinion formed accordingly. We don’t present opinions separately on these matters. We confirm that the following matters 
are key matters to be communicated through in the audit report. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
227 
1) Recognition of Sales Revenues 
 Description: 
As shown in Note (V) 45, the operating revenue in 2021 in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended December 31st 2021 is RMB 81,420,053,539.27. The product sales revenue, a key performance indicator, 
reaches RMB 75,532,012,528.94, accounting for 92.77% of the operating revenue, which is a significant indicator and 
has a significant influence on results of operations. The product sales revenue models include product domestic sales and 
product export sales by domestic companies and the overseas sales of overseas subsidiaries; the domestic sales of products 
by domestic companies and the overseas sales of overseas subsidiaries are completed when the contro l of the goods is 
transferred, i.e. when the products are delivered to the other party ’s designated location, or the other party completed 
acceptance; while for the export of products of domestic companies, the delivery of the goods to the carrier designated by 
the other party at the port of shipment specified in the contract within the specified time limit is the time point for the 
transfer of control of t he goods. The timing of the transfer of control rights under each revenue model is different, and 
improper determination of the timing of completion of performance obligations may result in a material misstatement of 
revenue recognition. Therefore, we regard the occurrence of sales revenue as a key audit matter. 
 
Audit Measures: 
Main audit procedures that we perform for the aforesaid key audit matters include: 
(1) Understanding and evaluating design and implementation of key internal control in relation to reve nue recognition, 
and testing the effectiveness of its operation; 
(2) For revenues under different sales model s, selecting a sample to check the  sales contract, reviewing its main 
transaction terms, evaluating whether revenue recognition complies with requirements of accounting policies of the 
Group and the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises;  
(3) Analyzing revenues and gross profits based on product types, to understand whether there are abnormal fluctuations 
in the revenues and gross profits for the year, and conducting a test of details for identified specific transactions, 
through systematic analysis of revenue data, and reviewing relevant supporting documents; 
(4) Selecting sample(s) from product sales revenues recorded for the year, checking invoices, sales contracts or orders, 
shipping orders, signature forms, and other supporting documents; for the sample(s) of income under the export model 
of the selected domestic companies, additional inspections will be made to the customs declaration record and 
shipment record. 
 
2) Provision for Credit Loss of Accounts Receivable 
Description: 
As disclosed in Note (V) 4 to the consolidated financial statements of the Group, as of December 31st 2021, the balance 
of accounts receivable amounted to RMB 28,201,432,058.17, and the balance of provision for credit loss es of accounts 
receivable amounted to RMB 2,026,658,957.75. The book value of the Group’s accounts receivable is relatively high, and 
the provision for credit loss of accounts receivable has a significant impact on the financial statements. As shown in Note 
(III) 10.2 and Note (III) 31 of the financial statements, the Group makes provisions for credit losses for accounts receivable 
at an amount equivalent to expected credit losses during the entire duration. For accounts receivable with significant 
individual amount and when the debtor has major financial difficulties, etc., the Group recognizes its credit losses based 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
228 
on individual assets, and classifies other accounts receivable into different combinations based on common credit risk 
characteristics and calculates expected credit losses on a portfolio basis. 
For accounts receivable classified into portfolios, the Group uses impairment matrix to determine the expected credit 
loss provision for accounts receivable. The expected credit loss provision ratio for each portfolio by using impairment 
matrix is determined based on the Group’s historical overdue ratio and default and with reference to the forward-looking 
information of the industry. In measuring expected credit loss, the Group is required to classify the customers with similar 
credit risk characteristics into a same portfolio, and classify them by appropriate overdue stage and comparable expected 
credit loss rate. The accounting estimates above are subject to a high level of uncertainties. Therefore, we identify the 
recognition of credit loss provision for accounts receivable on a portfolio basis as a key audit matter. 
 
Audit Measures: 
Main audit procedures that we perform for the aforesaid key audit matters include: 
(1) Understanding and evaluating design and implementation of key internal control in relation to expected credit loss 
provision for accounts receivable by the Group’s management, and testing the effectiveness of its operation; 
(2) Understanding the Group’s accounting policies for expected credit loss on accounts receivable; for the model where 
the Group’s management estimates expected credit loss provision for accounts receivable on a portfolio basis, we 
mainly performed the following procedures; 
-Assessing the rationality of measurement method by using impairment matrix model, and the rationality of the k ey 
parameters and assumptions used in the impairment matrix model, including classification of different portfolios, 
classification of stage, forward-looking adjustment, etc.; 
- Obtaining the historical default data used by the Group ’s management in determ ining the historical loss rate of 
accounts receivable, and evaluating the accuracy thereof; 
- Selecting samples to test the accuracy of the classification of portfolio and stage by the Group’s management; 
- Recalculating the expected credit loss provision based on default loss percentage. 
4. Other Information 
Management of Hikvision shall be responsible for other information. Other information includes the information 
covered in the annual report, excluding the financial statements and our audit report. 
Our audit opinion on the financial statements does not cover other information and we do not express any form of 
authentication conclusion on other information.  
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read other information and to consider 
whether other information is significantly misstated or materially inconsistent with the financial statements or the 
information we learned during the audit. 
Based on the works we have performed, if we determine that there is a mat erial misstatement in other information, 
we should report the fact. In this respect, we have nothing to report. 
5. Responsibility of the Management and Governance for the Financial Statements 
The management of Hikvision is responsible for the preparation o f financial statements in accordance with 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises to achieve fair presentation, and design, implementation and maintenance 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
229 
of necessary internal control to enable the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error.  
When preparing the financial statements, the management is responsible for assessing the going -concern ability of 
Hikvision, disclosing issues related to going-concern as applicable, and applying going-concern assumptions, unless the 
management plans to liquidate Hikvision, terminate operation or has no other realistic choice.  
The governance is responsible for supervising financial reporting processes of Hikvision. 
6. Responsibility of Certified Public Accountants on Audit of the Financial Statements 
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the overall financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue audit report that contain audit opinions. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance, but could not guarantee that an audit performed in accordance with the Auditing Standards can 
always figure out any existing material misstatements. Misstatements may be caused by fraud or error. Misstatem ent is 
generally considered to be material if it is reasonably expected that the misstatement, alone or aggregated, may affect the 
users’ financial decisions based on the financial statements. 
In performing the audit in accordance with the Auditing Standards, we applied professional judgment and maintained 
professional skepticism. Meanwhile, we also perform the following duties:  
(1) Identify and evaluate the risk of material misstatement of financial statements due to fraud or error; design and 
implement audit procedures to cope with these risks, and obtain adequate and appropriate audit evidence as the basis 
for expressing audit opinions. As fraud may involve collusion, forgery, willful omission, misrepresentation or 
override of internal control, the risk of not discovering a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of 
not discovering a material misstatement due to error. 
(2) Understand the internal control related to auditing as a way to design appropriate audit procedures.  
(3) Evaluate the properness of accounting policy selected by the management and the rationality of accounting estimate 
and related disclosure. 
(4) Reach a conclusion on whether the going concern assumption adopted by the management is appropriate. Meanwhile, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, reach a conclusion on whether there are material uncertainties in the events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubts on Hikvision's ability to continue as a going concern. If we reach a 
conclusion that there is a material uncertainty, the Auditing Standards require us to call the attention of the users of 
the report to the relevant disclosures in the financial statements in the audit report. If the disclosure is insufficient, we 
should issue modified audit opinions. Our conclusion is based on the information available up to the date of the audit 
report. However, future events or conditions may result in the failure of Hikvision to continue as a going concern. 
(5) Evaluate the overall presentation (including the disclosure), structure and conte nt of the financial statements and 
evaluate whether the financial statements fairly reflect the related transactions and events. 
(6) Obtain adequate and appropriate audit evidence on the financial information of entity or business activities of 
Hikvision so as to express audit opinions on the financial statements. We are responsible for directing, supervising 
and executing the audit on the Group, and assume full responsibility for the audit opinions. 
We communicated with the governance about the scope of the audit, the schedule and major audit findings, including 
the notable shortcomings of internal control identified during the auditing.  
We also provide statement to the governance on the independence-related work ethics we follow, and communicate 
with the governance on all relations and other matters that might be reasonably deemed to influence our independence as 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
230 
well as relevant precautionary measures (as applicable).  
We determine which of the matters we communicated with the governance are of the greatest importance to the audit 
of financial statements of the current period so as to make them key matters. We describe the matters in the audit report. 
We decide not to communicate on such matters in the audit report unless the laws and regulations forbid the pu blic 
disclosure of such matters, or, in rare circumstances, if the negative consequence of communication of matters in the audit 
report is reasonably expected to exceed the benefit of the public interest.  
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
231 
On December 31st 2021 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31st 2021 On December 31st 2020 
Current Assets:    
Cash and bank balances (V)1 34,721,870,931.36 35,459,729,108.27 
Held-for-trading financial assets (V)2 34,320,010.83 22,679,846.77 
Notes receivable  (V)3 1,522,760,905.30 1,303,252,705.19 
Accounts receivable (V)4 26,174,773,100.42 21,979,380,716.86 
Receivables for financing (V)5 1,316,035,122.06 1,959,601,195.25 
     Prepayments  (V)6 505,798,253.35 296,334,689.86 
     Other receivables (V)7 359,620,445.88 519,143,350.82 
     Inventories (V)8 17,974,112,407.60 11,477,906,040.70 
   Contract assets (V)9 1,411,372,624.91 245,754,510.98 
Non-current assets due within one year (V)10 975,960,437.14 1,001,208,813.83 
Other current assets (V)11 1,022,600,377.78 497,914,506.64 
Total Current Assets   86,019,224,616.63 74,762,905,485.17 
Non-current Assets:     
Long-term receivables (V)12 613,067,944.97 2,105,570,004.53 
Long-term equity investment (V)13 982,165,546.45 864,026,710.23 
Other non-current financial assets (V)14 438,724,172.22 491,939,067.27 
Fixed assets (V)15 6,695,590,671.27 5,876,007,536.60 
Construction in progress (V)16 2,323,336,098.68 1,425,235,193.72 
Right-of-use assets (V)17 566,393,672.75 - 
     Intangible assets (V)18 1,304,247,415.07 1,251,317,923.69 
     Goodwill (V)19 202,381,895.37 274,203,665.20 
   Long-term deferred expenses (V)20 158,007,174.90 108,584,686.85 
     Deferred tax assets (V)21 1,210,877,575.24 820,380,954.86 
     Other non-current assets (V)22   3,350,526,411.63 721,511,156.08 
Total Non-current Assets  17,845,318,578.55 13,938,776,899.03  
Total Assets  103,864,543,195.18 88,701,682,384.20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
232 
On December 31st 2021 
Consolidated Balance Sheet-continued 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31st 2021 On December 31st 2020 
Current Liabilities:    
     Short-term borrowings (V)23 4,074,962,469.97 3,999,246,634.59 
   Held-for-trading financial liabilities (V)24 4,062,317.57 7,405,771.15 
    Notes payable  (V)25 1,339,998,383.34   1,036,920,229.85 
   Accounts payable (V)26 15,889,694,981.12 13,593,884,790.19 
     Contract liabilities (V)27 2,580,894,226.59 2,161,166,671.26 
     Payroll payable (V)28 4,595,552,073.12 2,877,786,430.71 
 Taxes payable (V)29 1,461,470,029.69  1,770,057,908.62 
 Other payables (V)30 1,830,626,583.03 1,525,053,355.95 
 Non-current liabilities due within one year (V)31 596,915,360.58 3,507,680,339.78 
    Other current liabilities (V)32 917,479,922.61 745,711,579.57 
Total Current Liabilities  33,291,656,347.62 31,224,913,711.67 
Non-current Liabilities:    
   Long-term borrowings (V)33 3,284,371,642.52  1,961,167,761.30 
   Lease liabilities (V)34 317,951,879.21 - 
   Long-term payables (V)35 9,009,331.50 39,595,459.35 
     Provisions (V)36 200,675,950.96 151,443,871.02 
     Deferred income (V)37 738,586,458.05 190,878,987.69 
Deferred tax liabilities (V)21 93,315,151.17 92,979,823.89 
Other non-current liabilities (V)38 534,334,158.27 560,959,368.74 
Total non-current liabilities  5,178,244,571.68 2,997,025,271.99 
Total liabilities  38,469,900,919.30 34,221,938,983.66 
Owners’ Equity    
     Share capital (V)39 9,335,806,114.00 9,343,417,190.00 
     Capital reserves (V)40 5,404,070,600.07  5,178,777,462.09 
     Less: Treasury shares (V)41 1,023,188,723.04 1,121,918,737.47 
   Other comprehensive income (V)42 (77,184,125.29) (84,993,926.94) 
     Surplus reserves (V)43 4,672,505,348.00 4,672,505,348.00 
     Retained earnings (V)44 45,148,877,451.52 35,806,523,826.37 
Total owners' equity attributable to owner of 
the Company  63,460,886,665.26 53,794,311,162.05 
     Minority equity  1,933,755,610.62 685,432,238.49 
Total owners' equity  65,394,642,275.88 54,479,743,400.54 
Total liabilities and owners' equity  103,864,543,195.18 88,701,682,384.20 
 
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.  
The financial statements were signed by the following: 
Legal Representative: Chen Zongnian; Person in charge of the accounting work: Jin Yan; 
Person in Charge of the Accounting Department: Zhan Junhua 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
233 
On December 31st 2021 
 
Balance Sheet of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31st 2021 On December 31st 2020 
Current Assets:    
Cash and bank balances  26,656,489,813.38 23,476,606,330.08 
Held-for-trading financial assets  4,489,098.88 - 
Notes receivable   254,830,140.51 107,411,912.35 
Accounts receivable (XV)1 23,878,118,071.42 24,193,392,179.36 
Receivables for financing  3,116,794.78 12,216,215.65 
      Prepayments   116,908,227.97 62,946,087.75 
Other receivables (XV)2 1,514,142,364.05 726,703,133.65 
      Inventories  346,835,446.94 204,216,250.73 
    Contract assets  2,627,800.33 3,311,250.08 
Non-current assets due within one year   123,112,934.70 71,208,685.76 
Other current assets  46,183,195.94 10,110,869.86 
Total Current Assets  52,946,853,888.90 48,868,122,915.27 
Non-current Assets:    
 Long-term accounts receivable   237,682,275.59 47,762,348.01 
 Long-term equity investment (XV)3 7,785,916,631.88 6,727,373,453.97 
Other non-current financial assets  435,839,952.22 489,054,847.27 
 Fixed assets  2,834,983,102.39 2,762,700,997.83 
Construction in progress  450,957,191.99 388,903,828.81 
Right-of-use assets  67,592,195.40 - 
Intangible assets  134,626,963.77 158,917,438.86 
Long-term deferred expenses  61,162,816.25 43,264,691.73 
Deferred tax assets  281,893,463.93 110,066,596.99 
Other non-current assets  21,042,856.65 2,740,576.47 
Total Non-current Assets  12,311,697,450.07 10,730,784,779.94 
Total Assets  65,258,551,338.97 59,598,907,695.21 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
234 
On December 31st 2021 
Balance Sheet of the Parent Company - continued 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31st 2021 On December 31st 2020 
Current Liabilities:    
  Short-term borrowings  361,117,361.14   1,431,233,375.00 
    Accounts payable  713,263,324.12   540,664,512.60 
    Contract liabilities  368,945,242.08   240,629,015.92 
Payroll payable  2,838,109,439.40 1,618,357,135.99 
Taxes payable  861,102,872.06 1,539,095,196.97 
Other payables  1,334,246,256.62  659,214,959.62 
Non-current liabilities due within one year  66,524,298.83   3,219,794,958.37 
   Other current liabilities  561,225,504.26   589,167,743.26 
Total Current Liabilities  7,104,534,298.51 9,838,156,897.73 
Non-current Liabilities:    
   Long-term borrowings  1,254,076,200.00   - 
   Lease liabilities  27,440,248.49   - 
     Provisions  113,998,912.05   85,230,299.84 
   Deferred Income  365,699,705.71 122,455,935.44 
Other non-current liabilities  511,594,361.52   560,959,368.74 
Total non-current liabilities  2,272,809,427.77 768,645,604.02 
Total liabilities  9,377,343,726.28 10,606,802,501.75 
Owners’ Equity    
    Share capital  9,335,806,114.00   9,343,417,190.00 
    Capital reserves  4,937,523,553.84   4,770,210,334.16 
    Less: Treasury shares  1,023,188,723.04   1,121,918,737.47 
    Surplus reserves  4,672,505,348.00   4,672,505,348.00 
    Retained earnings  37,958,561,319.89 31,327,891,058.77 
Total owners' equity  55,881,207,612.69  48,992,105,193.46 
Total liabilities and owners' equity  65,258,551,338.97 59,598,907,695.21 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
235 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
Consolidated Income Statement 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the current 
period 
Amount for the prior 
period 
I. Total operating income (V)45 81,420,053,539.27 63,503,450,891.78 
  Less：Total operating costs (V)45 45,329,400,332.65 33,957,697,857.73 
Business taxes and surcharges (V)46 560,980,007.52 416,263,349.55 
        Selling expenses (V)47 8,586,443,668.02 7,377,790,744.58 
        Administrative expenses (V)48 2,132,250,463.96 1,790,013,088.76 
Research and Development (R&D) expenses (V)49 8,251,645,101.39 6,378,651,762.42 
        Financial expenses (V)50 (133,343,257.84)  396,254,772.56 
        Including：Interest expenses  229,950,217.93 202,415,502.10 
                  Interest income  885,545,988.62 719,662,082.74 
  Add: Other Income (V)51 2,628,560,820.46 2,303,581,705.81 
 Investment income  (V)52 174,205,547.82 169,277,048.95 
      Including: Investment gains in associated enterprise and 
joint-venture enterprise  114,137,281.18 6,361,388.74 
 Gains (losses) from changes in fair values (V)53 (38,200,024.47) 85,458,209.54 
 Credit impairment losses (V)54 (569,758,165.50) (185,940,325.74) 
 Impairment losses of assets (V)55 (447,689,406.60) (363,109,513.99) 
 Asset disposal income   34,225,603.81 628,505.02 
II. Operating profit   18,474,021,599.09 15,196,674,945.77 
Add: Non-operating income (V)56 75,744,369.29 99,273,303.50 
Less: Non-operating expenses (V)57 81,554,105.75 22,976,971.41 
III. Total profit   18,468,211,862.63 15,272,971,277.86 
Less: Income tax expenses (V)58 957,490,652.16 1,594,651,805.69 
IV . Net profit    17,510,721,210.47 13,678,319,472.17 
4.1 Classification by continuous operation    
(a) Net profit on continuous operation   17,510,721,210.47 13,678,319,472.17 
(b) Net loss on terminated operation  - - 
4.2 Classification by attribution of ownership  - - 
(a) Profit or loss attributable to minority shareholders  710,310,178.42 292,792,758.02 
(b) Net profit attributable to owners of parent company  16,800,411,032.05 13,385,526,714.15  
V . Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (V)42 4,631,122.68 (34,145,243.17) 
Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the 
Company, net of tax  7,809,801.65 (31,452,779.95) 
(I) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or 
loss  - - 
(II) Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods  7,809,801.65 (31,452,779.95) 
1. Exchange differences arising on conversion of financial 
statements denominated in foreign currencies  7,809,801.65 (31,452,779.95) 
Other comprehensive income attributable to minority interests, 
net of tax  (3,178,678.97) (2,692,463.22) 
VI. Total comprehensive income  17,515,352,333.15 13,644,174,229.00 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
236 
Item Notes Amount for the current 
period 
Amount for the prior 
period 
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent 
company  16,808,220,833.70 13,354,073,934.20 
Total comprehensive income attributable to minority 
shareholders  707,131,499.45 290,100,294.80 
VII. Earnings per share    
      (I) Basic earnings per share (XVI)2 1.810 1.445 
(II) Diluted earnings per share (XVI)2 1.806 1.444 
 
 
 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
237 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
Income Statement of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the 
current period 
Amount for the prior 
period 
I. Total operating income (XV)4 28,072,593,261.87 26,311,987,347.40 
Less: Total operating Cost (XV)4 5,240,788,874.32 7,177,407,215.45 
    Business taxes and surcharges  327,853,515.36 293,578,888.80 
    Selling expenses  3,578,887,952.72 2,854,822,255.21 
      Administrative expenses  767,812,041.04 783,395,117.26 
        Research and Development (R&D) expenses  6,049,343,480.30 4,554,003,406.39 
        Financial expenses  (740,196,978.65) (278,380,172.69) 
Including : Interest expenses   104,266,342.46 85,828,434.69 
                Interest income  701,176,190.67 527,732,109.92 
Add: Other income   1,889,775,429.25 1,847,575,953.90 
 Investment income  (XV)5 237,198,739.71 1,095,486,482.55 
       Including: Investment gains in associated enterprise and 
joint-venture enterprise  109,087,538.20 13,424,897.92 
  Gains (losses) from changes in fair values  (48,725,796.17) 69,478,784.83 
  Credit impairment losses  (119,440,900.17) (35,765,705.73) 
  Gains (losses) on asset impairment  (2,669,913.88) 2,397,952.77 
  Asset disposal income   30,917,301.16 16,966.03 
II. Operating profit  14,835,159,236.68 13,906,351,071.33 
   Add: Non-operating income  9,542,292.17 18,924,477.37 
   Less: Non-operating expenses  61,845,120.19 4,678,775.95 
III. Total profit  14,782,856,408.66 13,920,596,772.75 
   Less: Income tax expenses  694,128,740.64 1,249,208,332.25 
IV . Net profit  14,088,727,668.02 12,671,388,440.50 
V . Other comprehensive income, net of income tax  - - 
VI. Total comprehensive income  14,088,727,668.02 12,671,388,440.50 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
238 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the 
current period 
Amount for the 
prior period 
I. Cash flows from operating activities:    
   Cash received from sale of goods or rendering of services  83,503,340,788.69 68,169,017,614.45 
         Receipts of tax refunds  4,683,092,023.52 3,274,552,890.75 
   Other cash receipts relating to operating activities (V)59(1) 2,798,426,938.05   1,427,590,353.65 
      Sub-total of cash inflows from operating activities  90,984,859,750.26 72,871,160,858.85 
    Cash payments for goods purchased and services received  53,662,747,197.88 37,257,220,824.09 
    Cash paid to and on behalf of employees  12,868,949,235.34 10,247,824,582.96 
         Payments of various types of taxes  6,447,300,353.27 4,901,863,280.18 
    Other cash payments relating to operating activities (V)59(2) 5,297,338,276.78 4,376,095,604.95 
      Sub-total of cash outflows from operating activities  78,276,335,063.27  56,783,004,292.18 
Net Cash flows from Operating Activities (V)60(1) 12,708,524,686.99  16,088,156,566.67 
II. Cash flows from Investing Activities:    
        Cash receipts from recovery of investments  6,189,975,412.80 1,693,378,691.26 
        Cash receipts from investment income  115,644,801.97 150,000,000.00 
        Net cash receipts from disposals of fixed assets, intangible assets and 
other long-term assets  64,430,953.56 14,793,178.49 
   Other cash receipts relating to investing activities (V)59(3) - 46,196,873.80 
   Sub-total of cash inflows from investing activities  6,370,051,168.33 1,904,368,743.55 
     Net cash paid for obtaining subsidiaries and other business units (V)60(2) 323,604,530.74 48,918,168.58 
        Cash payments to acquire or construct fixed assets, intangible assets 
and other long-term assets  3,098,310,855.39 2,003,628,270.01 
        Cash paid to acquire investments  6,094,268,306.70 2,405,456,262.23 
Other cash payments relating to investment activities (V)59(4) 10,196,658.79 1,000,000.00 
      Sub-total of cash outflows from investing activities  9,526,380,351.62 4,459,002,700.82 
Net cash flows from Investing Activities  (3,156,329,183.29) (2,554,633,957.27) 
III. Cash flows from financing activities:    
        Cash receipts from capital contributions  207,702,900.00 173,897,986.67 
        Including: cash receipts from capital contributions from minority 
owners of subsidiaries  207,702,900.00 173,897,986.67 
     Cash receipts from borrowings  5,915,784,932.52 5,883,973,583.25 
     Cash receipts from issuance of bonds and SCP  - 999,500,000.00 
      Sub-total of cash inflows from financing activities  6,123,487,832.52 7,057,371,569.92 
  Cash repayments of borrowings  7,758,027,348.85 4,834,813,277.12 
        Cash payments for distribution of dividends or profits or settlement 
of interest expenses  7,844,017,257.76 6,704,954,160.69 
Including : Dividends and profits paid by subsidiaries to minority 
shareholders  4,704,000.00 40,000,000.00 
        Other cash payments relating to financing activities (V)59(5) 312,940,867.51 77,707,417.35 
       Sub-total of cash outflows from financing activities  15,914,985,474.12 11,617,474,855.16 
       Net cash flows from Financing Activities  (9,791,497,641.60) (4,560,103,285.24) 
IV . Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on Cash and Cash 
Equivalents  (181,591,311.21) (464,249,454.25) 
V . Net Increase (decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (V)60(1) (420,893,449.11)  8,509,169,869.91 
     Add: Opening balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (V)60(1) 35,024,837,878.31 26,515,668,008.40 
VI. Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (V)60(3) 34,603,944,429.20 35,024,837,878.31 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
239 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
Cash Flow Statements of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the 
current period 
Amount for the 
prior period 
I. Cash flows from Operating Activities::    
Cash receipts from the sale of goods and the rendering of services  34,148,655,237.57 30,589,118,989.08 
Receipts of tax refunds  1,726,725,329.46 1,609,506,273.14 
Other cash receipts relating to operating activities  976,326,567.89 728,754,897.93 
   Sub-total of cash inflows from operating activities  36,851,707,134.92 32,927,380,160.15 
Cash payments for goods acquired and services received  8,696,110,952.82 8,265,995,701.20 
Cash payments to and on behalf of employees  6,188,349,496.37 5,227,053,043.52 
Payments of various types of taxes  4,406,691,364.91 3,096,614,910.29 
Other cash payments relating to operating activities  1,765,753,448.19 1,827,804,822.26 
Sub-total of cash outflows from operating activities  21,056,905,262.29 18,417,468,477.27 
Net Cash flows from Operating Activities (XV)8(1) 15,794,801,872.63 14,509,911,682.88 
II. Cash flows from Investing Activities:    
Cash receipts from recovery of investments  33,398,189.82 6,450,064.33 
Cash receipts from investment income  131,960,801.97 210,000,000.00 
Net cash receipts from disposals of fixed assets, intangible assets and 
other long-term assets  84,321,638.76 22,605,893.13 
Cash receipts from disposals of subsidiaries and other business units  - 848,151,116.16 
Other cash receipts relating to investing activities  82,668,322,959.43 44,165,378,335.06 
Sub-total of cash inflows from investing activities  82,918,003,589.98 45,252,585,408.68 
Cash payments to acquire or construct fixed assets, intangible assets and 
other long-term assets  650,844,109.04 446,640,144.49 
Cash payments to acquire investments  942,402,941.96 1,572,003,054.15 
       Other cash payments relating to investing activities  83,113,418,266.33 43,940,319,202.39 
     Sub-total of cash outflows from investing activities  84,706,665,317.33 45,958,962,401.03 
Net Cash flows from Investing Activities  (1,788,661,727.35) (706,376,992.35) 
III. Cash flows from Financing Activities    
 Cash receipts from borrowings  1,644,388,055.69 2,480,000,000.00 
Cash receipts from issuance of bonds and SCP  - 999,500,000.00 
       Other cash receipts relating to financing activities  15,606,213,712.04 6,971,777,752.17 
      Sub-total of cash inflows from financing activities  17,250,601,767.73 10,451,277,752.17 
Cash repayments of borrowings  4,572,909,918.72 4,049,244,293.61 
       Cash payments for distribution of dividends or profits or settlement of 
interest expenses  7,516,599,420.29 6,547,520,501.67 
      Other cash payments relating to financing activities  15,775,258,476.27 6,910,848,212.28 
     Sub-total of cash outflows from financing activities  27,864,767,815.28 17,507,613,007.56 
Net Cash flows from Financing Activities  (10,614,166,047.55) (7,056,335,255.39) 
IV . Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on Cash and Cash 
Equivalents  (17,084,979.94) (138,534,267.16) 
V . Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (XV)8(1) 3,374,889,117.79 6,608,665,167.98 
  Add: Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents (XV)8(1) 23,264,693,578.70 16,656,028,410.72 
VI. Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (XV)8(2) 26,639,582,696.49 23,264,693,578.70 
                                                                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
240 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Owners' Equity 
    Unit: RMB 
Items 
2021 
Owner’s equity attributable to the parent company 
Minority 
interests 
Total owners' 
equity Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury 
share 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
Surplus reserve Retained profits 
I. Opening balance of the current 
period 9,343,417,190.00 5,178,777,462.09 1,121,918,737.47 (84,993,926.94)  4,672,505,348.00 35,806,523,826.37  685,432,238.49 54,479,743,400.54 
II. Increase or decrease in the 
current period (7,611,076.00) 225,293,137.98 (98,730,014.43) 7,809,801.65  - 9,342,353,625.15 1,248,323,372.1
3 10,914,898,875.34 
(I) Total comprehensive income  - - - 7,809,801.65  - 16,800,411,032.05 707,131,499.45 17,515,352,333.15 
(II) Owners’ contributions and 
reduction in capital (7,611,076.00) 225,293,137.98 (37,631,007.23) - - - 545,895,872.68 801,208,941.89 
1. Capital contribution from 
shareholders - - - - - - 207,702,900.00 207,702,900.00 
2. Share-based payment 
recognized in owners’ equity - 340,326,119.26 - - - - 29,003,130.85 369,329,250.11 
3. Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
- - - - - - 317,436,910.79 317,436,910.79 
4. Others (7,611,076.00) (115,032,981.28) (37,631,007.23) - - - (8,247,068.96) (93,260,119.01) 
(III) Profit distribution - - (61,099,007.20) - - (7,458,057,406.90) (4,704,000.00) (7,401,662,399.70) 
1. Transfer to surplus reserves - - - - - - - - 
2. Distributions to 
shareholders - - (61,099,007.20) - - (7,458,057,406.90)  (4,704,000.00) (7,401,662,399.70) 
III. Closing balance of the current 
period 9,335,806,114.00 5,404,070,600.07 1,023,188,723.04 (77,184,125.29) 4,672,505,348.00 45,148,877,451.52 1,933,755,610.6
2 65,394,642,275.88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
241 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2020 to December 31st 2020 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Owners' Equity-continued 
Unit: RMB  
Items 
2020 
Owner’s equity attributable to the parent company 
Minority 
interests 
Total owners' 
equity Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury 
share 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
Surplus reserve Retained profits 
I. Opening balance of the current 
period 9,345,010,696.00 4,126,943,698.96 2,148,273,864.36 (53,541,146.99) 4,672,505,348.00 28,961,389,145.22 568,825,008.31 45,472,858,885.14 
II. Increase or decrease in the 
current period (1,593,506.00) 1,051,833,763.13 (1,026,355,126.89) (31,452,779.95) - 6,845,134,681.15 116,607,230.18 9,006,884,515.40  
(I) Total comprehensive income  - - - (31,452,779.95)  - 13,385,526,714.15  290,100,294.80 13,644,174,229.00  
(II) Owners’ contributions and 
reduction in capital (1,593,506.00) 1,051,833,763.13 (925,020,534.09) - - - (135,943,064.62) 1,839,317,726.60 
1. Capital contribution from 
shareholders - - - - - - 173,897,986.67 173,897,986.67 
2. Share-based payment 
recognized in owners’ equity - 752,504,023.39 - - - - 65,602,599.80 818,106,623.19 
3.Others (1,593,506.00) 299,329,739.74 (925,020,534.09) - - - (375,443,651.09) 847,313,116.74 
(III) Profit distribution - - (101,334,592.80) - - (6,540,392,033.00) (37,550,000.00) (6,476,607,440.20) 
1. Transfer to surplus reserves - - - - - - - - 
2. Distributions to 
shareholders - - (101,334,592.80) - - (6,540,392,033.00) (37,550,000.00) (6,476,607,440.20) 
III. Closing balance of the current 
period 9,343,417,190.00 5,178,777,462.09 1,121,918,737.47 (84,993,926.94)  4,672,505,348.00 35,806,523,826.37  685,432,238.49 54,479,743,400.54  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
242 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
Statement of Changes in Owners' Equity of the Parent Company 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2021 
Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury share Surplus reserve Retained profits Total owners' equity 
I. Closing balance of the prior year 9,343,417,190.00 4,770,210,334.16 1,121,918,737.47 4,672,505,348.00 31,327,891,058.77 48,992,105,193.46 
II. Increase or decrease in the current period (7,611,076.00)   167,313,219.68   (98,730,014.43) -    6,630,670,261.12       6,889,102,419.23    
(I) Total comprehensive income - - - -    14,088,727,668.02       14,088,727,668.02    
(II) Owners’ contributions and reduction in capital (7,611,076.00)   167,313,219.68   (37,631,007.23) - -    197,333,150.91    
1. Share-based payment recognized in owners’ equity -   282,346,200.96   - - -   282,346,200.96   
2. Others  (7,611,076.00) (115,032,981.28) (37,631,007.23) - - (85,013,050.05) 
(III) Profit distribution - - (61,099,007.20) - (7,458,057,406.90) (7,396,958,399.70) 
  1.Distributions to shareholders - - (61,099,007.20) - (7,458,057,406.90) (7,396,958,399.70) 
III. Closing balance of the current period   9,335,806,114.00     4,937,523,553.84     1,023,188,723.04     4,672,505,348.00      37,958,561,319.89       55,881,207,612.69    
Item 
2020 
Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury share Surplus reserve Retained profits Total owners' equity 
I. Closing balance of the prior year 9,345,010,696.00 4,064,833,739.52 2,148,273,864.36 4,672,505,348.00 25,196,894,651.27 41,130,970,570.43 
II. Increase or decrease in the current period (1,593,506.00) 705,376,594.64 (1,026,355,126.89) - 6,130,996,407.50 7,861,134,623.03 
(I) Total comprehensive income - - - - 12,671,388,440.50 12,671,388,440.50 
(II) Owners’ contributions and reduction in capital (1,593,506.00) 705,376,594.64 (925,020,534.09) - - 1,628,803,622.73 
1. Share-based payment recognized in owners’ equity - 717,200,505.99 - - - 717,200,505.99 
2. Others  (1,593,506.00) (11,823,911.35) (925,020,534.09) - - 911,603,116.74 
(III) Profit distribution - - (101,334,592.80) - (6,540,392,033.00) (6,439,057,440.20) 
        1.Distributions to shareholders - - (101,334,592.80) - (6,540,392,033.00) (6,439,057,440.20) 
III. Closing balance of the current period 9,343,417,190.00 4,770,210,334.16 1,121,918,737.47 4,672,505,348.00 31,327,891,058.77 48,992,105,193.46 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
243 
I. Basic Information about the Company 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Company" or " the Company " or 
“Hikvision”), is a Sino-foreign equity joint venture company, formerly known as "Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology 
Ltd", established on November 30th 2001 in Hangzhou upon the approval letter of Hangzhou High -tech No. 604 [2001] 
issued by Hangzhou High-tech Industrial Development Zone Management Committee. On June 25th 2008, with approval 
of  document No. 598 [2008] issued by the MOFCOM (The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China), 
the Company was renamed as “Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. ”, headquartered in Hangzhou, and 
obtained the business license of enterprise No.91330000733796106P. On May 28th 2010, the Company was listed on the 
Shenzhen Stock Exchange. 
On December 17th 2020, authorized by the Company’s second Extraordinary General Meeting in 2016, the Company 
completed procedures of repurchase and cancellation of some of the 1,593,506 restricted stocks that did not meet the 
incentive conditions, and the total share capital of the Company was adjusted to 9,343,417,190 shares.  
On July 2nd 2021, authorized by the Company’s second Extraordinary General Meeting in 2016 and the second 
Extraordinary General Meeting in 2018, the Company completed procedures of repurchase and cancellation of some of 
the 7,611,076 restricted stocks that did not meet the incentive conditions, and the total share capital of the Company was 
adjusted to 9,335,806,114 shares. For details of the share capital, please refer to Note (V) 39. 
As of December 31st 2021, the Company’s total registered capital is RMB 9,335,806,114, with total capital shares of 
9,335,806,114 shares (face value RMB 1 per share), of which restricted A -shares were 1,192,886,791 shares, A -shares 
without restriction are 8,142,919,323 shares. 
The Company is involved in the sector of other electronic equipment manufacturing of  the electronic industry. 
Business scope of the Company includes development and production of electronic products (including explosion-proof 
electrical products, tele-communication equipments and its ancillary equipments, multimedia equipments, transmissi on 
and display equipments), fire protection and control products, big data and IoT software and hardware products, aerial 
vehicles, robots, intelligent equipments and intelligent systems, real -time communication systems, auto parts and 
accessories, electrical signal equipments for vehicle, servers and supporting hardware and software products; sales of self-
manufactured products; technical service, electronic technology consulting service, training service (excluding class 
training), electronic equipment installation, design, construction and maintenance of electronic engineering and intelligent 
system engineering. For details about business scope of the Company and its subsidiaries, please refer to Note (VII) 1.  
The Company’s consolidated financial reports were approved for issuance by the 9th meeting of the 5th session of the 
Board of Directors of the Company on April 14th 2022.  
For consolidation scope of the financial statements of the current reporting period, please refer to Note (VII) “Interest 
in other entities”. For changes in consolidation scope of the financial statements during the current reporting period, please 
refer to “changes in the consolidation scope” in Note (VI).  
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
244 
II. Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements 
Basis of preparation of financial statements 
The Company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as "the Group") have adopted the Accounting Standards for 
Business Enterprises ("ASBE") and relevant provisions issued by the Ministry of Finance ("MoF"). In addition, the Group 
has disclosed relevant financial information in accordance with Information Disclosure and Presentation Rules for 
Companies Offering Securities to the Public No. 15－ General Provisions on Financial Reporting (revised in 2014).  
 
Going concern 
The Group has evaluated its going concern for 12 months going forward starting from December 31st 2021, and there is 
no factor that may cast significant doubt on the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the financial 
statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
 
Bookkeeping base and valuation principles  
The Group measures the accounting elements in accordance with the accrual accounting basis. Except certain financial 
instruments are measured by fair value, these financial statements are prepared in accordance with the measurements basis 
of historical costs. If the asset decreases in value, the provision for impairment of assets should be made according to 
relevant regulations. 
 
According to the historical cost measurement, the assets shall be measured as per the amount of cash or cash equivalent 
paid at the time of purchase, or the fair value of consideration paid for the purchase of such assets. The liabilities shall be 
measured in accordance with the amount of funds or assets actually received when undertaking current obligations, or the 
contract amount when undertaking the current obligations, or the amount of cash or cash equivalents required for paying 
back the debts in daily activities.  
 
The fair value is a price received by the market participants from selling asset or transferring liability during orderly 
transaction at the measurement date. No matter the fair value is observable or estimated by using valuation technique, the 
measured and disclosed fair value in the financial statement shall be determined on this basis.  
 
When measuring non -financial assets at fair value, the assets shall be measured considering the ability of market 
participants to use the assets for optimal use to generate economic benefits, or to sell the assets to other market participants 
to use the assets for optimal use to generate economic benefits. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
245 
For the financial assets measured with transaction price at the initial recognition, and the use of valuation techni ques 
involving unobservable inputs in the subsequent fair value measurement, the valuation technique is corrected in the 
valuation process in order to make the initial recognition results confirmed by valuation techniques equal to the transaction 
price. 
 
Based on the observable extent of the input value of the fair value, and the importance of such input value to the fair value 
measurement, the fair value measurement is divided into three levels:  
• Level 1: The input value is the unadjusted offer of the same assets or liabilities on active market acquired on measurement 
date;  
• Level 2: The input value is the input value of relevant assets or liabilities observable directly or indirectly in addition to 
level 1 input value;  
• Level 3: The input value is the non-observable input value of relevant assets or liabilities.  
III. Significant Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates 
1. Statement for Compliance with Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (ASBE) 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with ASBE, and present truly and completely, 
the Company's and consolidated financial position as of December 31st 2021; and the Company's consolidated results of 
operations, the Company’s and consolidated changes in shareholders' equity, and the Company’s and consolidated cash 
flows for 2021. 
2. Accounting Period  
The Group has adopted the calendar year as its accounting year from January 1st to December 31st each year.  
3. Business Cycle  
The business cycle refers to the period from purchase of assets used for processing to realization of cash or cash equivalents. 
The Group business cycle is usually 12 months.  
4. Functional Currency  
Renminbi (“RMB”) is the currency in the primary econo mic environments in which the Company and its domestic 
subsidiaries are operated. The Company and its domestic subsidiaries take RMB as their functional currency. Overseas 
subsidiaries of the Company determine their functional currency on the basis of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates. For functional currency of overseas subsidiaries of the Company, see Note (V) 62. The Group adopts 
RMB to prepare its financial statements. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
246 
5. The Accounting Treatment of Business Combinations Involving Enterprises under Common C ontrol and  
Business Combinations Not Involving Enterprises under Common Control 
Business combinations are classified into business combinations involving enterprises under common control and business  
combinations not involving enterprises under common control. 
 
5.1 Business combinations involving enterprises under common control 
 
A business combination involving enterprises under common control is a business combination in which all of the 
combining enterprises are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the combination, and 
that control is not transitory. 
 
Assets and liabilities obtained shall be measured at their respective carrying amounts as recorded by the combining entities 
at the date of the combination. The difference between the carrying amount of the net assets obtained and the carrying 
amount of the consideration paid for the combination is adjusted to the share premium in capital reserve. If the share 
premium is not sufficient to absorb the difference, any excess shall be adjusted against retained earnings. 
 
Costs that are directly attributable to the combination are charged to profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. 
 
5.2 Business combinations not involving enterprises under common control and goodwill 
A business combination not involving enterprises under common control is a business combination in which all of the 
combining enterprises are not ultimately controlled by the same party or parties before and after the combination. 
 
The cost of combination is the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred 
or assumed, and equity securities issued by the acquirer in exchange for control of the acquiree. If a business combination 
not under the common control is realized step by step through multiple transactions, the cost of the combination is the sum 
of the consideration paid on the purchase date and the fair value of the equity of the purchase already held before the 
purchase date on the purchase date. The intermediary expenses incurred by the acquirer in respect of auditing, legal 
services, valuation and consultancy services, etc. and other associated administrative expenses attributable to the business 
combination are recognized in profit or loss when they are incurred. 
 
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, acquired by the acquirer in a business combination, 
that meet the recognition criteria shall be measured at fair value at the acquisition date. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
247 
Where the cost of combination exceeds the acquirer’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, the 
difference is treated as an asset and recognized as goodwill, which is measured at cost on initial recognition. Wh ere the 
cost of combination is less than the acquirer’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, the acquirer 
firstly reassesses the measurement of the fair values of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
and measurement of the cost of combination. If after that reassessment, the cost of combination is still less than the 
acquirer’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, the acquirer recognizes the remaining difference 
immediately into profit or loss for the current period. 
 
Goodwill arising on a business combination is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, and is presented 
separately in the consolidated financial statements.  
 
6. Preparation Method of Consolidated Financial Statements 
6.1 Preparation method of consolidated financial statements  
The scope of consolidated financial statements shall be confirmed based on the control. Control right means that an 
investor may control an investee; the investor may participate in relevant activities of the investee to obtain variable 
rewards and also be able to use the control rights for the investee to influence its amount of returns. The Group will re -
evaluate, if the change of the relevant facts and circumstances leading to the change of the relevant elements involved in 
the above definition of control.  
 
The merger of subsidiary starts from the Group obtaining the control power of the subsidiary, and terminates when the 
Group loses the control power of the subsidiary.  
 
As for subsidiaries disposed by the Group, operating results and cash flows prior to the disposal date (the date of losing 
control right) have been properly included in the consolidated profit statement and consolidated cash flow statement.  
 
For a subsidiary acquired through a business combination not involving enterprises under common control, the operating 
results and cash flows from the acquisition date (the date when control is obtained) are included in the consolidated income 
statement and consolidated statement of cash flows.  
 
No matter when the business combination occurs in the  reporting period, subsidiaries acquired through a business 
combination involving enterprises under common control are included in the Group's scope of consolidation as if they had 
been included in the scope of consolidation from the date when they first came under the common control of the ultimate 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
248 
controlling party. Their operating results and cash flows from the beginning of the earliest reporting period are included 
in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of cash flows, as appropriate. 
 
The significant accounting policies and accounting periods adopted by the subsidiaries are determined based on the 
uniform accounting policies and accounting periods set out by the Company. 
 
All significant intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation. 
 
The portion of subsidiaries' equity that is not attributable to the Company is treated as minority interests and presented as 
"minority equity" in the consolidated balance sheet. The portion of net profits or losses of subsid iaries for the period 
attributable to minority interests is presented as "minority interests" in the consolidated income statement below the "net 
profit" line item. 
 
When the amount of loss for the period attributable to the minority shareholders of a subs idiary exceeds the minority 
shareholders' portion of the opening balance of owners' equity of the subsidiary, the excess amount are still allocated 
against minority interests. 
 
Acquisition of minority interests or disposal of interest in a subsidiary that does not result in the loss of control over the 
subsidiary is accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the total owners' equity attributable to owner 
of the Company and minority equity are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relat ive interests in the subsidiary. The 
difference between the amount by which the minority interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or 
received is adjusted to capital reserve under owners' equity. If the capital reserve is not sufficient to absorb the difference, 
the excess is adjusted against retained earnings. 
 
In the case that the equity of the acquiree is obtained through multiple deals step by step to finally form the business 
combination not under the common control, the business combination shall be handled differently based on whether it is 
"package deal": where it is package deal, the Company accounts each deal as a deal to obtain the control. If the deal is not 
a "package deal", a deal where the control is obtained on the acquisition date will be subject to accounting. The acquiree's 
equity held before the acquisition date will be remeasured based on the fair value of the equity on the acquisition date and 
the difference between the fair value and book value will be included  in the profit or loss in the current period. If the 
acquiree's equity held before the acquisition date involves any changes in the other comprehensive income or in any other 
owner's equity accounted by the equity method, such equity changes will be converted into the profit or loss in the current 
period on the acquisition date. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
249 
7. Joint Arrangement Classification and Joint Operation Accounting 
Joint arrangements include joint operation and joint ventures. Such classification is defined based on the rights and 
obligations of the joint parties in the joint arrangement, taking into account the structure and legal form of such 
arrangement and also the contractual provisions. Joint operation refers to a joint arrangement where the joint venture is 
entitled to assets related to this arrangement and bear liabilities related to this arrangement. Joint ventures mean that joint 
venture parties are merely entitled to joint venture arrangements of net assets of such arrangements. 
 
The Groups investment in any joint venture is accounted by the equity method. See the details in Note (III) "15.3.2 Long-
term equity investment accounted under the equity method".  
 
The Group confirms its assets held separately according to the arrangement  of joint operation and those held jointly in 
proportion to the Group's share; confirms its liabilities held separately and those held jointly in proportion to the Group's 
share ; confirms its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from t he joint operation; confirms its share of 
the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; confirms the expenses incurred by the Group alone and the 
expenses incurred by the joint operation corresponding to the share of the Group therein. The assets, liabilities, revenues 
and expenses related to the joint operation are accounted and confirmed by the Group in accordance with the regulations 
applicable to specific assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. 
8. Recognition Criteria of Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash comprises cash on hand and deposits that can be readily withdrawn on demand. Cash equivalents are the Group's 
short-term (Generally refers to due within three months from the purchase date), highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
9. Conversion of Transactions and Financial Statements Denominated in Foreign Currencies.  
9.1 Transactions denominated in foreign currencies 
A foreign currency transaction is recorded, on initial recognition, by applying an exchange rate that approximates the 
actual spot exchange rate on the date of transaction; The exchange rate that approximates the actual spot exchange rate on 
the date of transaction is calculated according to the middle price of market exchange rate at the beginning of the month 
in which the transaction happened. 
At the balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are translated into [RMB] using the spot exchange rates at the 
balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from the differences between the spot exchange rates prevailing at the 
balance sheet date and those on initial recognition or at the previous balance sheet date are recognized in profit or loss for 
the period, except for exchange differences related to a specific-purpose borrowing denominated in foreign currency that 
qualify for capitalization are capitalized as part of the cost of the qualifying asset during the capitalization period. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
250 
When the consolidated f inancial statements include foreign operation(s), if there is foreign currency monetary item 
constituting a net investment in a foreign operation, exchange difference arising from changes in exchange rates are 
recognized as "exchange differences arising on conversion of financial statements denominated in foreign currencies " in 
other comprehensive income, and in profit and loss for the period upon disposal of the foreign operation. 
 
Foreign currency non-monetary items measured at historical cost are conver ted to the amounts in functional currency at 
the spot exchange rates on the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency non-monetary items measured at fair value are 
re-converted at the spot exchange rate on the date the fair value is determined. Differenc e between the re -converted 
functional currency amount and the original functional currency amount is treated as changes in fair value (including 
changes of exchange rate) and is recognized in profit and loss or as other comprehensive income. 
 
9.2 Conversion of financial statements denominated in foreign currencies 
For the purpose of preparing the consolidated financial statements, financial statements of a foreign operation are 
converted from the foreign currency into RMB using the following method: assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are 
translated at the spot exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date; shareholders' equity items are converted at the 
spot exchange rates at the dates on which such items arose; all items in the income statemen t as well as items reflecting 
the distribution of profits are translated at exchange rates that approximate the actual spot exchange rates on the dates of 
the transactions; The difference between the converted assets and the aggregate of liabilities and shareholders' equity items 
is recognized into other comprehensive income and shareholders’ equity. 
 
The foreign currency cash flows and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries adopt the exchange rate similar to the spot rate at 
the date of cash flows for conversion. The affected amount of cash and cash equivalents due to the change of exchange 
rate, as an ad justment item, shall be separately listed as "the impact of cash and cash equivalents due to the change of 
exchange rate" in the cash flow statement.  
 
The closing balances of the prior year and the actual amount of the prior year are presented at the conv erted amounts of 
the prior year's financial statements. 
 
On disposal of the Group's entire interest in a foreign operation, or upon a loss of control over a foreign operation due to 
disposal of certain interest in it or other reasons, the Group transfers t he accumulated exchange differences arising on 
conversion of financial statements of this foreign operation attributable to the owners' equity of the Company and presented 
under shareholders' equity, to profit or loss in the period in which the disposal occurs. 
 
In case of a disposal or other reason that does not result in the Group losing control over a foreign operation, but only a 
decrease in proportion of overseas business interests, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences arising 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
251 
on conversion of financial statements are re-attributed to minority interests and are not recognized in profit and loss under 
current period. For partial disposals of equity interests in foreign operations, which are associates or joint ventures, the 
proportionate shares of the accumulated exchange differences arising on conversion of financial statements of foreign 
operations is reclassified to profit or loss under current period. 
10. Financial Instruments 
The Group recognizes a financial asset or a financial liability when it becomes a party to a contract of financial instrument. 
 
For the purchase or sale of a financial asset in conventional manner, the asset to be received and the liability to be assumed 
will be recognized on the trading day, or the asset sold will be derecognized on the trading day. 
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured by fair value upon initial recognition. For financial assets and 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss, the relevant trading costs will be directly charged to profit and loss 
of the current period. For other types of financial assets and financial liabilities, the relevant trading costs will be booked 
into the initial recognition amount. Upon initial recognition of accounts receivable which have no material financing 
components or have not taken into consideration the financing components in contracts with a term not exceeding one 
year according to Accounting Standards for Business Enterprise No. 14 – Revenue (“Revenue Standard”), such initial 
amount is measured by the transaction price as defined under the Revenue Standard. 
 
Effective interest rate method refers to the method of calculating the amortized cost of financial asset or financial liability 
and apportioning interest income or interest expenses to each accounting period. 
 
Effective interest rate refers to the interest rate used for discounting the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset or 
a financial liability for an expected subsisting period into the balance of book value of the financial asset or the amortized 
cost of the financial liability. When determining the effective interest rate, the expected cash flows are estimated on the 
basis of considering all contractual terms of the financial asset or financial liabili ty (such as early repayment, extended 
term, call option or other similar option) but without considering the expected credit loss. 
 
The amortized cost of a financial asset or a financial liability refers to the initial recognition amount of such financial asset 
or financial liability, less the repaid amount of principal, plus or minus the accrued amortized amount calculated by 
amortization of the difference between the initial recognition amount and the amount on maturity by using the effective 
interest rate method, and then deducts the accrued provision for losses (only applicable to financial assets). 
 
10.1 Classification, Confirmation and Measurement of Financial Assets  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
252 
After initial recognition, the Group will adopt amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, or fair value 
through profit and loss for subsequent measurement depending on different categories of financial assets. 
 
The Group will classify a financial asset into a financial asset measured at amortized cost if the contractua l terms of the 
financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial as sets in 
order to collect contractual cash flows. Financial assets classified by the Group as financial asset measured by amortized 
cost include cash and cash equivalents, notes receivables and accounts receivable, other receivables and long -term 
receivables. 
 
The Group will classify a financial asset into a financial asset measured by fair value through other comprehensive income 
if the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal 
and interest on the principal amount outstanding, and the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective 
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets. This category of financial assets 
mainly includes financial assets with a maturity of more than one year from the date of acquisition and which are presented 
under other debt investments, financial assets maturing within one year (inclusive) from the balance sheet date and which 
are presented under non-current assets maturing within one year, as well as the accounts receivable and notes receivable 
classified as fair value at the time of acquisition and their changes are included in other comprehensive income are listed 
in the receivables for financing,  and for those have acquisition period within one year (including one year) are listed in 
other current assets. 
 
At the time of initial recognition, the Group may, on the basis of a single financial asset, irrevocably designate an 
investment in an equity i nstrument held for non -trading purpose recognized or without consideration in a business 
combination of enterprises not under the same control as a financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income. 
This type of financial assets is presented as investment in other equity instruments.  
 
Financial assets which have satisfied one of the following conditions indicate that such financial assets are held for trading 
purpose by the Group: 
• The purpose of acquiring the relevant financial asset is mainly for sale in recent period. 
• At the time of initial recognition, the relevant financial asset is a part of an identifiable portfolio of financial 
instruments under collective management, and there is objective evidence showing a recent and actual existence of short-
term profitable mode.  
• The relevant financial assets are derivatives, excluding derivatives which satisfy the definition under financial 
guarantee contracts and derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments. 
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss include financial assets which are classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit and loss and financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss:  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
253 
• Financial assets which do not satisfy the conditions of being classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost 
or as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, they will be classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit and loss. 
• At the time of initial recognition, in order to eliminate or substantially reduce mismatch in accounting, the Group 
may irrevocably designate a financial asset as a financial asset measured at fair value with changes through profit and loss.  
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss will be presented as held-for-trading financial assets. If such financial 
assets have a maturity of more than one year from the balance sheet date (or without a fixed maturity) and which are 
expected to be held for more than one year, they will be presented under other non-current financial assets.  
 
10.1.1 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 
Financial assets measured at amortized cost adopt the effective interest rate method for subsequent measurement according 
to amortized cost, the profit or loss when impairment occurs or upon derecognition will be accounted in profit and loss of 
the current period.  
 
The Group recognizes interest income by using effective interest rate method for financial assets measured at amorti zed 
cost. The Group determines interest income by multiplying the balance of book value of financial assets with the effective 
interest rate except under the following circumstances: 
• For acquired or generated financial assets which incurred credit impair ment already, their interest income will be 
determined by using the amortized cost of such financial asset calculated with the credit adjusted effective interest rate.  
• For acquired or generated financial assets which have not incurred credit impairment but incur credit impairment in 
the subsequent period, the Group will determine their interest income by using the amortized cost of such financial assets 
multiplied with the effective interest rate in the subsequent period. If such financial asset ceases to have credit impairment 
due to improvement in credit risk in the subsequent period, then the Group should change to multiply the effective interest 
rate with the balance of book value of such financial asset instead to determine the interest income.  
  
10.1.2 Financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income 
The impairment loss or profit, or interest income calculated by using the effective interest rate method, relating to financial 
asset at fair value through other comprehensive income s hould be accounted in the profit and loss of the current period, 
and other changes in fair value of such financial assets will be accounted in other comprehensive income. The amount 
charged by such financial asset to the profit and loss of each period is d eemed to be equal to the amount which has been 
measured by amortized cost and charged to the profit and loss of each period. Upon derecognition of such financial asset, 
the accumulated profit or loss previously charged to other comprehensive income will be  reversed from other 
comprehensive income and charged to profit and loss of the current period.   
 
For non-trading equity instrument investment designated at fair value through other comprehensive income, its changes 
in fair value will be recognized in oth er comprehensive income. Upon derecognition of such financial asset, the 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
254 
accumulated profit or loss charged to other comprehensive income will be reversed from other comprehensive income and 
charged to retained earnings. During the period when such investm ent in equity instruments for non-trading purpose are 
held by the Group, the right to receive dividends by the Group has been established, and economic benefits related to 
dividends are likely to flow into the Group, and if the amount of dividends may be measured reliably, the dividend income 
is recognized and accounted in the profit and loss of the current period.  
 
10.1.3 Financial asset at fair value through profit and loss 
For financial asset at fair value through profit and loss, subsequent measurement will be calculated at fair value, the profit 
or loss arising from changes in fair value and the dividend and interest income relating to such financial asset will be 
accounted in the profit and loss of the current period.  
 
10.2 Impairment of Financial Assets 
For financial assets measured at amortized cost, financial assets that are classified as financial asset at fair value through 
other comprehensive income, contract assets, lease receivables, and financial guarantee contracts that do not meet the 
conditions for termination of recognition due to the transfer of financial assets or continue to be involved in financial 
liabilities formed by the transferred financial assets, the Group will handle impairment on the basis of expected credit loss 
and recognize loss provision.  
 
The Group’s consideration of contract assets, notes receivable and accounts receivable that are generated by transactions 
regulated by revenue standards and do not contain significant financing components or that do not consider financin g 
components in contracts that are not more than one year old, as well as those operating lease receivables formed from 
transactions that are defined by the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 21-Leasing, the loss reserve shall 
be measured based on the amount of the expected credit loss during the entire duration.  
For other financial instruments, other than acquired or generated financial assets which have incurred credit impairment 
already, the Group will assess on each balance sheet date th e changes in credit risk of the relevant financial instruments 
since initial recognition. If the credit risk of such financial asset has significantly increased after initial recognition, the 
Group will calculate its loss provision based on the amount equivalent to the expected credit loss for the entire subsisting 
period. If the credit risk of such financial asset since initial recognition has not increased significantly, the Group will 
calculate its loss provision according to the expected credit loss amo unt of such financial asset for the next 12 months. 
The amount of increase or reversal in the provision for credit loss, apart from financial assets classified as financial asset 
at fair value through other comprehensive income, is accounted in the profit and loss of the current period. For financial 
asset classified as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the Group will recognize its credit loss 
provision in other comprehensive income and charged the impairment loss or gain to the pro fit and loss of the current 
period, and will not decrease the book value of such financial asset presented in the balance sheet.  
The Group has calculated the loss provision equivalent to the expected credit loss amount for the entire subsisting period 
of the financial instrument in the preceding accounting period, but at the balance sheet date of the current period, such 
financial instrument is no longer under the condition of significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, the 
Group calculates the loss provision for such financial instrument on the balance sheet date of the current period according 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
255 
to an amount equivalent to the expected credit loss for the next 12 months, and the resulting loss provision reversal amount 
will be counted as impairment gain and booked into the profit and loss of the current period.  
  
10.2.1 Significant increase in credit risk 
The Group uses available and reasonable forward-looking information with justification, by comparing the default risk of 
the financial instrument at the balance sheet date with the default risk on the initial recognition date, to confirm whether 
the credit risk of the financial instrument has significantly increased after initial recognition. When using the financial 
instrument impairment rules for loan commitment and financial guarantee contracts, the date when the Group becomes a 
party of an irrevocable commitment is deemed as the initial recognition date.  
 
The Group considers the following factors when assessing whether the credit risk has significantly increased: 
(1) Whether a significant change has been caused to the internal price indicator due to changes in credit risk. 
(2) Whether the external credit rating of financial instrument has actual or expected significant changes. 
(3) Whether the actual or expected internal credit rating of the debtor has been downgraded.  
(4) Whether adverse changes have occurred in the business, finance or economic conditions which are expected to cause 
significant changes in the capability of the debtor to perform debt repayment obligations.  
(5) Whether actual or expected significant changes have occurred in the operating results of the debtor. 
(6) Whether significant adverse changes have occurred in the supervision, economic or technical environment in which 
the debtor operates. 
(7) Whether significant changes have occurred in the value of security pledged for the debt or the quality of guarantee 
or credit enhancement provided by third parties. Such changes are expected to reduce the debtor ’s economic 
motivation of repayment according to contractual term or influence the probability of default. 
(8) Whether significant changes have occurred in the economic motivation which will lower the expectation of 
repayment by the borrower according to the contractual term. 
(9) Whether significant changes have occurred in the expected performance and repayment behavior of the debtor. 
 
Whether or not the credit risks increase significantly after the foregoing assessments, if any contractual payment for any 
financial instrument that overdue for over (including) 30 days, it indicates the credit risks of that financial instrument have 
increased significantly. 
 
On the balance sheet date, if the Group determines that the financial instrument only carries low credit risks, then it assumes 
that the credit risks of the financial instrument have not increased significantly since the initial recognition. If the risk of 
default on financial instruments is low, the borrower is highly able to perform its contractual cash flow obligations in the 
short term, and even if the economic situation and operating environment are adversely changed over a long period of time 
but not necessarily reducing the borrower ’s performance of its contractual cash obligations, the financial instrument is 
considered as having a lower credit risk.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
256 
10.2.2  Financial assets which have incurred credit impairment already 
When one or more events which will have adverse effect on the expected future cash flows from the financial asset of the 
Group have occurred, such financial asset will become a financial asset which have incurred credit impairment already. 
The evidence of credit impairment occurred in a financial asset includes the following observable information:  
(1) Material financial difficulties have occurred in the issuer or debtor; 
(2) Breach of contract by the debtor, such as default or overdue for the payment of interest or repayment of principal;  
(3) Due to economic or contractual considerations relating to financial difficulties of the debtor, the creditor has granted 
concession to the debtor under no other circumstances;  
(4) The debtor is likely to go bankrupt or carry out other financial restructuring;  
(5) The financial difficulties of the issuer or debtor have caused the disappearance of the active market for the financial 
asset;  
(6) The purchase or generation of a financial asset at a large discount, such discount reflects the fact of occurrence of credit 
loss.  
 
10.2.3  Confirmation of expected credit loss 
The Group’s accounts receivable, other receivables, contract assets, lease receivables and long-term receivables, that are 
individually significant and the debtor has serious financial difficulties, are determined on the basis of individual for its 
credit loss. For the remaining accounts receivable, other receivables, contract assets, lease receivables and long -term 
receivables, an impairment matrix is us ed to determine the credit losses of relevant financial instruments on a portfolio 
basis. The Group determines credit losses by assessing the probability of breach and loss given default based on the credit 
ratings on a portfolio basis of notes receivable and receivables. On the basis of common risk characteristics, the Group 
places financial instruments in different groups. The common credit risk characteristics adopted by the Group include: 
financial instrument type, credit risk rating, initial recognitio n date, remaining contract period, industry of debtor, 
geographic location of debtor, and etc.  
 
The Group confirms the expected credit loss of the relevant financial instrument according to the following method: 
 In respect of a financial asset, the credit loss is the present value of the difference between the contractual cash 
flow that the group should receive and the cash flow that it expects to receive. 
 In respect of lease receivables, the credit loss is the present value of the difference between the contractual cash 
flow that the group should receive and the cash flow that it expects to receive. 
 In respect of a financial guarantee contract (for specific accounting policies, please refer to Note (III), 10.4.1.2.1), 
the credit loss is the present value of the difference between Group ’s expected payment amount for the 
compensation made to the contract holder due to the occurrence of credit loss and the amount expected to be 
received by the Group from such contract holder, debtor or any other parties. 
 In respect of financial assets with credit impairment on the balance sheet date but they are not acquired or 
generated financial assets with credit impairment, the credit loss represents the difference between the bala nce 
of the book value of such financial asset and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted by 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
257 
the original effective interest rate.  
 
The factors reflected by the method used for calculating expected credit loss of financial instruments by the Group include: 
an unbiased weighted average amount determined by assessing a series of probable outcomes; time value of currency; 
reasonable and justifiable information relating to past events, prevailing conditions and forecast of future econom ic 
conditions obtained on the balance sheet date without incurring unnecessary additional cost or effort.  
 
10.2.4  Write-off on financial asset 
When the Group ceases to have reasonable expectation on the possible collection of all or part of the contractu al cash 
flows from the financial asset, the balance of book value of such financial asset will be written off directly. Such a write-
off constitutes a de-recognition of the relevant financial asset.  
 
10.3 Transfer of financial asset 
A financial asset that fulfills one of the following conditions will be de -recognized: (1) termination of contractual rights 
to receive cash flows from the financial asset; (2) upon transfer of such financial asset and transfer of substantially all the 
risks and rewards in respect of the ownership of such financial asset to the transferee; (3) upon transfer of such financial 
asset, though the Group has not transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards in respect of the ownership 
of such financial asset, yet it has not retained the control over such financial asset.   
 
If the Group has not transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards in respect of the ownership of such 
financial asset, and has retained the control over such financial asset, then such transferred financial asset will continue to 
be recognized, and the relevant liabilities will continue to be recognized, according to the level of the Group’s continuous 
involvement in such transferred financial asset. The relevant liabilities will be measured by the Group according to the 
following method:  
• If the transferred financial asset is measured by amortized cost, the book value of the relevant liabilities is equivalent 
to the book value of the transferred asset of continuous involvement less the amortized cost of the rights retained by the 
Group (if the Group has retained the relevant rights due to transfer of the financial asset) and plus the amortized cost of 
the obligations undertaken by the Group (if the Group has undertaken the relevant obligations due to transfer of the 
financial asset), and the relevant liabilities are not designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of 
the current period.  
• If the transferred financial asset is measured by fair value, the book value of the relevant liabilities is equivalent to  
the book value of the transferred asset of continuous involvement less the fair value of the rights retained by the Group (if 
the Group has retained the relevant rights due to transfer of the financial asset) and plus the fair value of the obligations  
undertaken by the Group (if the Group has undertaken the relevant obligations due to transfer of the financial asset), and 
the fair value of the rights and obligations shall be measured at the fair value on a separate basis.  
For full transfer, which satisfies the conditions of derecognition, of the financial assets, the difference between the sum of 
the book value of the transferred financial assets as at the date of derecognition and the consideration received from such 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
258 
transfer and the accumulated amount of  change in fair value originally included in other comprehensive income, which 
corresponds to the amount in respect of derecognition, shall be recognized in the profit and loss for the current period. If 
the transfer of the financial assets by the Group is  designated as investment in equity instrument held for non -trading 
purpose measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the accumulated gains or losses previously included 
in other comprehensive income shall be transferred out from other com prehensive income and be included in retained 
earnings.  
 
For transfer in part, which satisfies the conditions of derecognition, of the financial assets, the book value of the entire 
financial assets before the transfer shall be shared between the derecognized portion and the continuous recognition portion 
at their respective relative fair value on the date of transfer, and the difference between the sum of the consideration 
received from derecognition and the accumulated amount of change in fair value orig inally included in other 
comprehensive income, which corresponds to the amount in respect of derecognition, and the book value of the 
derecognized portion as at the date of derecognition shall be included in the profit and loss of the current period. If th e 
transfer of the financial assets by the Group is designated as investment in equity instrument for non -trading purpose 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the accumulated gains or losses previously included in other 
comprehensive income shall be transferred out from other comprehensive income and be included in retained earnings. 
 
For full transfer, which does not satisfy the conditions of derecognition, of the financial assets, the Group will continue to 
recognize the entire financial assets transferred and the consideration received as a result of the asset transfer is recognized 
as a liability when received. 
 
10.4 Classification, confirmation and measurement of financial liabilities and equity instruments  
Pursuant to the contractual terms of the issued financial instruments and the substantive economic condition as reflected, 
but not in legal terms only, combined with the definitions of financial liabilities and equity instruments, the Group has 
classified such financial instruments or the components thereof as financial liabilities or equity instruments upon initial 
recognition.  
 
10.4.1 Classification, confirmation and measurement of financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities are classified into financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period a nd 
other financial liabilities upon initial recognition.  
 
10.4.1.1 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period comprise of financial liabilities held for 
trading purpose (including derivatives of financial liabilities) and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value 
through profit and loss of the current period. Except for derivatives of financial liabilities, which are presented separately, 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period are presented as financial lia bilities held for 
trading.  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
259 
Financial liabilities that fulfill one of the following conditions suggest that the Group assumes such financial liabilities for 
trading purpose: 
• Assumption of the relevant financial liabilities is mainly for the purpose of the recent repurchases. 
• The relevant financial liabilities, upon initial recognition, are part of a portfolio of identifiable financial instruments 
under centralized management, and available objective evidence shows the recent and actual existence of a sh ort-
term profit-making model.  
• The relevant financial liabilities are derivatives, except derivatives which satisfy the definition of financial guarantee 
contract and derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments.  
 
Financial liabilities can be designated, upon initial recognition, by the Group as financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit and loss of the current period, provided that they have satisfied one of the following conditions: (1) such designation 
can eliminate or substantially reduce accounting mismatches; (2) managing and evaluating the performance of portfolios 
of financial liabilities, or portfolios of financial assets and financial liabilities, on fair value basis and reporting internally 
to key personnel of the Group on this basis in accordance with the risk management or investment strategies specified in 
formal written documents of the Group; (3) hybrid contracts, with embedded derivatives, have satisfied the conditions. 
Financial liabilities held for trading purpose use fair value for subsequent measurement, gains or losses arise from changes 
in fair value and the dividends or interest expenses relating to such financial liabilities are accounted in the profit and loss 
of the current period. 
 
For financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss of the current period, changes in fair value of such 
financial liabilities caused by changes in the Group ’s own credit risks shall be included in other comprehensive income, 
and other changes in fair value shal l be included in the profit and loss of the current period. On derecognition of such 
financial liabilities, the accumulated amount of changes in fair value as a result of changes in our own credit risk included 
previously in other comprehensive income shall be transferred to retained earnings. Dividends or interest expenses relating 
to such financial liabilities shall be included in the profit and loss of the current period. If handling the effect of chang es 
in credit risk of such financial liabilities acco rding to the aforesaid method would cause or magnify the accounting 
mismatches in profit and loss, the Group will include all gains or losses of those financial liabilities (including the amount 
affected by changes in their own credit risk) in the profit and losses of the current period. 
 
10.4.1.2  Other financial liabilities 
Excluding transfer of financial assets not complying with derecognition conditions, or financial liabilities as a result of 
continuous involvement in transferred financial assets, as w ell as the financial guarantee contracts, the other financial 
liabilities will be classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, subsequent measurement will be based on 
amortized cost, gains or losses on derecognition or amortization will be accounted in the profit and loss of the current 
period.  
 
If the Group and the counterparty have revised or renegotiated the contract, this has not resulted in the derecognition of 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
260 
financial liabilities measured at amortized cost for subsequent measurem ent, but has caused changes in the contractual 
cash flows, then the Group should recalculate the book value of such financial liabilities, and the relevant gains or losses 
shall be accounted in the profit and loss of the current period. The recalculated book value of such financial liabilities will 
be determined by the Group by discounting the cash flows from the renegotiated or revised contract with the original effect 
interest rate of the financial liabilities. All costs or expenses incurred in the revisi on or renegotiation of the contract will 
be reflected in the adjusted book value of financial liabilities after such revision, and will be amortized during the 
remaining period of the revised financial liabilities.    
 
10.4.1.2.1 Financial guarantee contract 
Financial guarantee contract refers to a contract that requests the issuer to provide a specific amount of compensation to 
the contract holder who suffers losses when a specific debtor fails to repay the debt on due date according to the initial or 
revised terms of the debt instrument. In respect of financial liabilities which are not designated at fair value through profit 
and loss of the current period, or in respect of financial guarantee contract for financial liabilities arising from transfer of 
financial assets not complying with derecognition conditions or continuous involvement in the transferred financial assets, 
the measurement after initial recognition will be based on the amount of provision for losses, or the balance of initial 
recognized amo unt after deducting the accumulated amortized amount confirmed in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Revenue Standard, whichever the higher.  
 
10.4.2 Derecognition of financial liabilities 
When the existing obligations of a financial liability have been wholly or partially discharged, such financial liability or 
such part of it will be derecognized. When the Group (as borrower) and the lender enter into an agreement to undertake 
new financial liabilities for replacing the original financial liab ilities, if substantive difference exists in the contractual 
terms between the new financial liabilities and the original financial liabilities, the Group should derecognize the original 
financial liabilities while at the same time recognizes the new financial liabilities.  
When a financial liability is wholly or partially derecognized, the difference between the book value of the derecognized 
portion and the consideration paid (including non -cash asset transferred out or new financial liabilities undertaken) will 
be accounted in the profit and loss of the current period.  
 
10.4.3 Equity instrument 
Equity instrument refers to a contract which can prove the ownership of remainder interest in assets after deducting all 
liabilities of the Group. The Group issues (including refina nces), repurchases, sells or cancels equity instruments for 
treatment of changes in equity. The Group will not recognize changes in the fair value of equity instruments. Trading 
expenses relating to equity transactions will be deducted from equity. 
The Group’s distribution to holder of equity instrument is treated as profit distribution, the share dividends paid out will 
not affect the total equity of shareholders.  
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
261 
10.5 Derivatives and embedded derivatives 
Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contract, foreign exchange option contract and interest rate swap contract, 
etc. Derivatives are measured at fair value initially on the date of signing the relevant contract and will be measured at fair 
value for subsequent measurement.  
 
For a hybrid contract constituted by an embedded derivative and a master contract, if the master contract is in respect of a 
financial asset, the Group will not split the embedded derivative from the hybrid contract, but will consider such hybrid 
contract as a whole unit to which the accounting standards and rules for classification of financial assets are applicable.  
If the master contract included in the hybrid contract is not in respect of a financial asset, and fulfills the following 
conditions at the same time, the G roup will split the embedded derivative from the hybrid contract to be treated as a 
separate subsisting derivative.  
(1) The economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely connected to the economic 
characteristics and risks of the master contract.  
(2) A separate instrument containing the same terms as the embedded derivative fits the definition of a derivative.   
(3) The hybrid contract is not measured at fair value and changes in fair value are accounted through profit and l oss of 
the current period.  
 
If an embedded derivative is split from the hybrid contract, the accounting treatment adopted by the Group for the master 
contract within the hybrid contract will be in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and rules. If the Group 
is unable to measure the fair value of the embedded derivative reliably according to the terms and conditions of the 
embedded derivative, the fair value of such embedded derivative will be determined by the difference between the fair 
value of the hybrid contract and the fair value of the master contract. After adoption of the above method, if the fair value 
of such embedded derivative is still unable to be measured separately on the acquisition date or subsequent balance sheet 
date, the Group will designate the entire hybrid contract as a financial instrument measured at fair value through profit and 
loss of the current period. 
 
10.6 Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities 
When the Group has legal right to offset the recognized financial assets and financial liabilities, and such legal right is 
enforceable currently, while at the same time the Group plans to perform netting settlement, or to liquidate the financial 
asset and repay the financial liability at the same time, the amount after offsetting between the financial asset and financial 
liability will be presented in the balance sheet. Save as said above, the financial asset and financial liability are presented 
separately in the balance sheet without offsetting each other.  
11. Receivables for Financing 
Among the notes receivable measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the ones with a term of less than 
(including) one year since they are acquired will be listed as receivables for financing; the ones with a term of more than 
(including) one year since they are acquired will be listed as other debt investment. The relevant accounting policy is 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
262 
explained in Note (III), 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3.  
12. Inventories  
12.1 Categories of inventories 
The Group's inventory mainly includes finished products, products in process and raw materials held in daily activities. 
Inventories are initially measured at cost. Cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion and other 
expenditures incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
 
12.2 Valuation method of inventories upon delivery 
The actual cost of inventories upon delivery is calculated using the moving weighted average method. 
 
12.3 Basis for determining net realizable value of inventories 
The inventory is measured according to cost and net realizable value, whichever is lower, on the date of balance sheet. 
When the net realizable value is lower than cost, withdraw inventory impairment reserves.  
 
The net realizable value refers to the amount derived by deducting the potential cost, estimated selling expense and relative 
taxes to the completion date from the estimated sales price of inventory in daily activities. When determining net realizable 
value of inventories, take the obtained conclusive evidence as basis and consider the purposes of holding inventories and 
influence of events after the balance sheet date.  
 
For the low-price stocks in large quantity, provision for the inventory price drops will be made based on the categories of 
stocks; for the stocks that are related to the products manufactured and sold in the same region, that have identical or 
similar ultimate use or purpose and that are hard to separate from other items when being measured, they are consolidated 
for provision for the inventory price drops; for other stocks, the provision for the inventory price drops will be made based 
on the cost of a single stock item in excess of the net realizable value.  
 
After provision for inventory depreciatio n reserves is made, if the factors resulting in the write -down of inventory 
impairment have disappeared and causing the net realizable value higher than its book value, such inventory impairment 
provision are recovered and reversed, and the reversed amount recorded in profits and losses of the current period. 
 
12.4 Inventory count system 
The perpetual inventory system is maintained for stock system. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
263 
12.5 Amortization method for low cost and short-lived consumable items and packaging materials 
Packaging materials and low cost and short-lived consumable items are amortized using the immediate write-off method. 
13. Contract Assets 
13.1 Method and standard for determination of contract assets 
Contract assets refer to the Group’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the Group has transferred 
to a customer when that right is conditioned on something other than the passage of time. The Group’s unconditional (i.e., 
depending on the passage of time only) right to receive consideration f rom the customer is separately presented as 
receivables. 
 
13.2 Methods for determining and accounting of expected credit loss of contract assets 
For details of methods for determining and accounting of expected credit loss of contract assets, please refer to Note (III)-
10.2 Impairment of financial instruments. 
 
14. Assets Held for Sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale category when the Group recovers the book value 
through a sale (including an exchange of non-monetary assets that has commercial substance) rather than continuing use. 
Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale are required to satisfy the following conditions at the same 
time: (1) the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject to terms that are usual 
and customary for sales of such asset or disposal group; (2) the sale is highly probable, i.e. the Group has made a resolution 
about a selling plan and obtained a confirmed purchase commitment and the sale is expected to be completed within one 
year. 
 
Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the book value and the net 
amount of the fair value less the cost of disposal. Where the carrying amou nt is higher than the net amount of fair value 
less the cost of disposal, the carrying amount should be reduced to the net amount of fair value less the cost of disposal, 
and such reduction is recognized as impairment loss of assets and included in profit or loss for the period. In the meantime, 
provision for impairment of held-for-sale assets is made. When there is an increase in the net amount of fair value of non-
current assets held for sale less the cost of disposal at the subsequent balance sheet date, the original deduction should be 
reversed from impairment loss of assets recognized after the classification as held for sale, and the reversed amount is 
included in profit or loss for the period. The impairment loss of assets recognized before the classification as held for sale 
is not reversed. 
 
Non-current assets or non-current assets within disposal groups classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortized, 
and the interests and other costs of liabilities of disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognized. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
264 
All or part of equity investments in an associate or joint venture are classified as held -for-sale assets. For the part that is 
classified as held for sale, it is no longer accounted through equity method since the date of the classification. 
15. Long-term Equity Investment 
15.1 Basis for determining joint control and significant influence over investee 
Control is the power to govern an entity through participating in relevant activities of the investee; the investor is able to 
obtain variable benefits from its activities, and at same time, to use the control rights on the investee to influence the 
amount of returns. Joint control means that joint control for certain arrangement in accordance with relevant agreements; 
activities relevant to the arrangement cannot be decided until obtaining the unanimous consent of parties sharing control 
right. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is 
not control or joint control over those policies. When determining whether an investing enterprise is able to exercise 
control or significant influence over an investee, the effect of potential voting rights of the investee, such as current 
convertible debts, current executable warrants, etc., held by the investing enterprises or other parties shall be considered. 
 
15.2 Determination of initial investment cost 
For a long-term equity, investment acquired through a business combination involving enterprises under common control, 
the shares of merged party's book value of owners' equity in the final controlling party consolidated financial statements 
obtained on the merger date shall be considered as the initial investment cost of long -term equity investment. The 
differences between the initial investment cost of long-term equity investment and the paid cash, the transferred non-cash 
assets and the book value of the assumed debts are adjusted against the capital surplus; if the capital surplus is not sufficient 
to be offset, the remaining balance is adjusted against retained earnings. In the case of issued equity securities treated as 
consolidation consideration, share of book value of owner's equity of merged party in the final controlling party 
consolidated financial sta tements is regarded as initial investment cost of long -term equity investments on the date of 
consolidation; capital reserve shall be adjusted in accordance with taking total nominal value of issued share as capital 
share, the difference between the initia l investment cost of long -term equity investments and total book value of issued 
shares; In case the capital reserve is not enough for writing down, the retained earnings shall be adjusted.  
 
For a long-term equity investment acquired through business combination not involving enterprises under common control, 
and the merging cost confirmed on the purchased date are regarded as the initial investment cost.  
 
The intermediate expenses made by the combining party or purchaser for audit, legal service, assessment and other 
management related expenses during the business merger should be included into the current profit and loss as it happens.  
 
Long-term equity i nvestment obtained by other means other than long -term equity investment formed by business 
combination shall be initially measured at cost. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
265 
15.3 Subsequent measurement and recognition of profit or loss 
 
15.3.1 Long-term equity investment accounted for using the cost method 
Long-term equity investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the cost method in the Company 's financial 
statements. A subsidiary is an investee that is controlled by the Group. 
 
The long-term equity investment accounted by the cost method shall be measured at its initial investment cost. If there are 
additional investments or disinvestments, the long -term equity investment cost shall be adjusted. Income from the 
investment in the current period shall be recognized in accordance with the cash dividends or profits declared and issued 
by the investee.  
 
15.3.2 Long-term equity investment accounted for using the equity method 
Except for investments in associates and joint ventures that are wholly or partly classified as holding assets for sale, the 
Group accounts for investment in associates and joint ventures using the equity method. An associate is an entity over 
which the Group has significant influence and a joint venture is an entity over which the Group can only exercise joint 
control along with other investors on the investee’s net assets. 
 
Under the equity method, where the initial investment cost of a long-term equity investment exceeds the Group’s share of 
the fair value of the investee ’s identifiable net assets at the time of acquisition, no adjustment is made to the initial 
investment cost. Where the initial investment cost is less than the Group ’s share of the fair value of the investee ’s 
identifiable net assets at the time of acquisition, the difference is recognized in profit or loss for the period, and the cost of 
the long-term equity investment is adjusted accordingly. 
 
Under the equity method, the Group recognizes its share of the net profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the 
investee for the period as investment income or loss and comprehensive income for the period, meanwhile, the book value 
of the long-term equity investment shall be adjusted; The Group shall accordingly reduce the book value of the long-term 
equity investment in terms of the part that shall be enjoyed according to the profit or cash dividends declared by the 
invested unit to be distributed; For other changes in the owners' equity of the invested unit other than net profits and losses, 
other comprehensive incomes and the profit distribution, the book value of long-term equity investment shall be adjusted 
and be included into the capital reserves. The Group shall, on the ground of the fair value of all identifiable assets of the  
invested entity when it obtains the investment, recognize the attributable share of the net profits and losses of the invested 
entity after it adjusts the net profits of the invested entity. If the accounting policies and accounting periods adopted by the 
invested unit are different from those adopted by the Group, the adjustment shall be made for the financial statements of 
the invested unit in accordance with the accounting policies and accounting periods of the Group to recognize the 
investment income and other comprehensive incomes. For the transaction incurred between  the group and associated 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
266 
enterprises and joint ventures, invested or sold assets don't constitute a business, the part that doesn't achieve internal 
transaction profit or loss or belongs to the Group calculated according to the enjoyed ratio will be offset, and the profit or 
loss on investment will be confirmed on this basis. But for the unrealized loss arising from the internal transaction between 
the Group and the invested unit, if such transaction loss is defined as the impairment loss of the transferre d asset, they 
cannot be offset.  
 
When the Group determines the net loss of the invested unit that shall be shared, it is necessary to write -down the book 
value of the long-term equity investment and other long-term equities substantially constituting the net investment of the 
invested unit to zero as a limit. Besides, if the Group is obliged to bear extra loss for the invested unit, it shall be necessary 
to determine provisions and record them to current investment loss in compliance with obligations expected to be assumed. 
If the invested unit realizes any net profits later, the Group shall, after the amount of its attributable share of profits offsets 
its attributable share of the un-confirmed losses, resume recognizing its attributable share of profits.  
 
15.4 Disposal of long-term equity investments 
On disposal of a long term equity investment, the difference between the proceeds actually received and the carrying 
amount is recognized in profit or loss for the period. 
 
16. Fixed Assets  
16.1 Recognition criteria for fixed assets 
Fixed assets are tangible assets that are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, 
or for administrative purposes, and have useful lives of more than one accounting year. A fixed asset i s recognized only 
when it is probable that economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be 
measured reliably. Fixed assets are initially measured at cost. 
 
Subsequent expenditures incurred for the fixed a sset are included in the cost of the fixed asset and if it is probable that 
economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the subsequent expenditures can be measured 
reliably. Meanwhile the carrying amount of the replaced part is d erecognized. Other subsequent expenditures are 
recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. 
 
16.2 Depreciation of each category of fixed assets 
A fixed asset is depreciated over its useful life using the straight -line method since the month subsequent to the one in 
which it is ready for intended use. The useful life, estimated net residual value rate and annual depreciation rate of each 
category of fixed assets are as follows: 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
267 
Class Depreciation period  Residual value rate (%) Annual depreciation rate (%) 
Buildings and Constructions 20 years 10 4.5 
General-purpose equipment 3-5 years 10 18.0-30.0 
Special-purpose equipment 3-5 years 10 18.0-30.0 
Means of transportation 5 years 10 18.0 
Estimated net residual value of a fixed asset is the estimated amount that the Group would currently obtain from disposal 
of the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition 
expected at the end of its useful life.  
 
16.3 Other explanations 
If a fixed asset is upon disposal or no future economic benefits are expected to be generated from its use or disposal, the 
fixed asset is derecognized. When a fixed asset is sold, transferred, retired o r damaged, the amount of any proceeds on 
disposal of the asset net of the carrying amount and related taxes is recognized in profit or loss for the period. 
 
The Group reviews the useful life and estimated net residual value of a fixed asset and the depreciation method applied at 
least once at each financial year-end, and account for any change as a change in an accounting estimate. 
 
17. Construction in Process 
Construction in progress is measured at its actual costs. The actual costs include various construction expenditures during 
the construction period, borrowing costs capitalized before it is ready for intended use and other relevant costs. 
Construction in progress is not depreciated. Construction in progress is transferred to a fixed asset when i t is ready for 
intended use.  
 
18. Borrowing Costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition & construction or production of assets eligible for capitalization 
shall be capitalized when assets expenditure, borrowing costs and necessary construction or production for bringing assets 
to expect ed conditions for use or marketing have taken place; when construction or production of assets ready for 
capitalization reach to expected conditions for use or marketing, capitalization shall be ceased. Other borrowing expenses 
are recognized as expenses in the current period.  
 
Where funds are borrowed under a specific-purpose borrowing, the amount of interest to be capitalized is the actual interest 
expense incurred on that borrowing for the period less any bank interest earned from depositing the borrowed funds before 
being used on the asset or any investment income on the temporary investment of those funds. Where funds are borrowed 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
268 
under general-purpose borrowings, the Group determines the amount of interest to be capitalized on such borrowings by 
applying a capitalization rate to the weighted average of the excess of cumulative expenditures on the asset over the 
amounts of specific-purpose borrowings. The capitalization rate is the weighted average of the interest rates applicable to 
the general -purpose borrowings. During the capitalization period, exchange differences related to a specific -purpose 
borrowing denominated in foreign currency are all capitalized. Exchange differences in connection with general-purpose 
borrowings are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.  
 
19. Intangible Assets 
19.1 Intangible Assets Valuation Method, Service Life and Impairment Test 
Intangible assets include land use right, intellectual property (IP), application software, and franchise, etc.  
 
An intangible asset is measured initially at cost. When an intangible asset with a finite useful life is available for use, i ts 
original cost is amortized over its estimated useful life using the straight -line method. The useful life and predicted net 
residual value of various intangible assets are shown as follows:  
Class Service life (year)  Salvage value rate (%)  
Land use right 40 or 50 years - 
IP Right 10 Years - 
Application Software 5-10 years - 
Franchise Franchised operating period - 
 
The fees charged by the Group to those who acquire public products and services during the project operation period do 
not constitute an unconditional right to receive cash. When the PPP project assets are ready for their intended use, the 
difference between the consideration amount of the relevant PPP project assets or the amount of confirmed construction 
income and the amount of cash (or other financial assets) that is entitled to receive a determinable amount will be 
recognized as intangible assets. 
 
For an intangible asset with a finite useful life, the Group reviews the useful life and amortization method at the end of the 
period, and makes adjustments when necessary. 
For the impairment test of intangible assets, please refer to Note (III), 20. Long-term asset impairment. 
 
19.2 Accounting Policy for Internal Research and Development Expenditure  
Expenditure during the research phase is recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
269 
Expenditure during the development phase that meets all of the following conditions at the same time is recognized as 
intangible asset. Expenditure during development phase that does not meet the following conditions is recognized in profit 
or loss for the period.  
(1) It is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;  
(2) The Group has the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
(3) The Group can demonstrate the ways in which the intangible asset will generate economic benefits, including the 
evidence of the existence of a market for the output of the intangible asset or the intangible asset itself or, if it is to be used 
internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset; 
(4) The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and the ability to use 
or sell the intangible asset; and 
(5) The expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development phase can be reliably measured.  
 
If the expenditures cannot be distinguished between the research phase and development phase, the Group recognizes all 
of them in profit or loss for the period. The costs of the intangible assets generated by internal development activities only 
include the total expenditure incurred from the time point when the capitalization conditions are available to the point 
when the intangible assets are used for their intended purposes; for the expenditure that already becomes an expenditure 
in the profit and loss statement before the capitalization conditions are available during development of the same intangible 
asset, no adjustment will be made.  
 
20. Long-term Assets Impairment 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that the long-term equity investment, fixed 
assets, construction in process, intangible assets with a finite useful life and assets related to contract costs may be impaired. 
If there is any indication that such assets may be impaired, recoverable amounts are estimated for such assets. Intangible 
assets with indefinite useful life and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, 
irrespective of whether there is any indication that the assets may be impaired. 
 
Recoverable amount is estimated on individual basis. If it is not practical to estimate the recoverable amount of an 
individual asset, the recoverable amount of the asset group to which the asset belongs will be estimated. The recoverable 
amount is determined by the higher of 1 ) net amount of fair value of the asset or asset group deducted by the disposal 
expenses; or 2) the present value of the expected future cash flows of the asset or asset group. 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset or an asset group is less than its carry ing amount, the deficit is accounted as an 
impairment provision and is recognized in profit or loss for the period. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
270 
In determining impairment losses on assets related to contract costs, impairment losses are first determined for other assets 
recognized in accordance with other relevant ASBEs and related to the contract; then, for assets related to contract costs 
whose carrying value is higher than the difference between the following two items, the Group makes provision for 
impairment for the excess to be recognized as asset impairment losses: (1) the remaining amount of consideration expected 
to be obtained by the Group for the transfer of goods or services related to the asset; (2) the estimated costs to be incurred 
in connection with the transfer of relevant goods or services. 
 
Goodwill impairment test shall be conducted at the end of each year at least. Goodwill impairment test shall be conducted 
in accordance with the concerned asset group or asset portfolio. That is to allocate the book value of goodwill to the asset 
group or asset portfolio that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination in a reasonable way from the date 
of purchasing. When recoverable amount of apportion-included asset group or asset portfolio of goodwill is less than book 
value of goodwill, impairment loss shall be recognized. Firstly, amount of impairment loss shall be apportioned to the 
book value of goodwill of the said asset group or asset portfolio, and then book value of other assets, except for goodwill, 
in asset group or asset portfolio shall be abated in proportion. 
 
Except for asset impairment losses related to contract costs, once the impairment loss of such assets is recognized, it cannot 
be reversed in any subsequent period. After the provision for impairment for the asset related to contract costs is made, if 
the difference between the above two items is higher than the carrying amount of the asset due to changes in the factors 
of impairment in previous periods, the original provision for impairment of the asset is reversed and included in the current 
profit or loss, but the carrying amount of the asset after the reversal shall not exceed the carrying amount of the asset on 
the reversal date assuming no provision for impairment is made. 
 
21. Long-term Deferred Expenses 
Long-term deferred expenses are the expenses that are already incurred but will be shared in the current reporting period 
and later periods with amortization term of more than one year, mainly for the expenses on betterment of leased fixed  
assets and employee housing loan deferred interest. Long-term deferred expenses are evenly amortized in installments in 
three to five years during the expected benefit period.  
 
22. Contract Liabilities 
Contract liabilities refer to the obligation of the Group to transfer goods or services to customers for consideration received 
or receivable from customers. Contract assets and contract liabilities under the same contract are presented in net terms. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
271 
23. Employee Compensation 
23.1 Accountant Arrangement Method of Short-term Remuneration  
During accounting period when the Group's employees provide services, actual short -term remuneration shall be 
recognized as the liabilities and current profit and loss or relevant asset cost. The Group’s employee benefits and welfare 
are included into current profit and loss or relevant asset cost according to actual amount occurred during the period. If 
the employee benefits and welfare is non-monetary, it shall be measured according to its fair value. 
 
During the accounting period that the employees service the Group, the Group pays social insurance premiums such as 
medical insurance premium, industrial injury insurance premium, maternity insurance premium and housing accumulation 
fund for its employees, as well as labor union expenditure and employee education expenses calculated and withdrawn 
according to the regulations, corresponding employee remuneration amount shall be calculated and determined in 
accordance with specified calculation and withdrawal  basis and proportion to recognize corresponding liabilities and 
included into the current profit and loss or relevant asset cost.  
 
23.2 Accountant Arrangement Method of Post-employment Benefits  
All post-employment benefits shall be considered as the defined contribution plan.  
 
In the accounting period when the employee serves for the Group, the deposited amount calculated based on defined 
contribution plan shall be recognized as liabilities and included in the current profit and loss or relevant asset cost.  
 
23.3 Accountant Arrangement Method of the Termination Benefits  
Where the Group provides termination benefits, the employee remuneration liabilities caused by such termination benefits 
will be determined as the following date, whichever is earlier, and will be included in the current profit and loss: 1) When 
the Group cannot unilaterally withdraw the termination benefits provided due to labor relation cancellation plan or 
employee lay-off suggestion; or 2）when the Group determines costs or expenses in relation with the restructuring of the 
paid termination benefits.  
 
24. Provisions 
Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation related to a contingency such as products quality 
assurance, etc. And it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be r equired to settle the obligation, and the 
amount of the obligation can be measured reliably. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
272 
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at 
the balance sheet date, taking into acc ount factors pertaining to a contingency such as the risks, uncertainties and time 
value of money. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision is determined by 
discounting the related future cash outflows. 
 
25. Share-based Payment 
Share-based payment refers to a transaction in which the Group grants the equity instruments or undertakes the equity -
instrument-based liabilities in return for services from employees. The Group's share -based payment is an equity-settled 
share-based payment.  
 
A share-based payment is a transaction which the Group grants equity instruments, or incurs liabilities for amounts that 
are determined based on the price of equity instruments, in return for services rendered by employees. The Group's share-
based payments are equity-settled share-based payments. 
 
25.1 Equity-settled share-based payments 
Grants to employees are equity-settled share-based payments. 
 
Equity-settled share-based payments in exchange for services rendered by employees are measured at the fair value of the 
equity instruments granted to employees at the grant date. Such amount is recognized as related costs or expenses on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. 
 
At each balance sheet date during the vesting period, the Group makes the best estimate according to the subsequent latest 
information of change in the number of employees who are granted with options that may vest, etc. and revises the number 
of equity instruments expected to vest. The effect of the above estimate is recognized as related costs or expenses, with a 
corresponding adjustment to capital reserve. 
 
25.2. Accounting treatment related to implementation, modification and termination of share-based payment arrangement 
In case the Group modifies a share-based payment arrangement, if the modification increases the fair value of the equity 
instruments granted, the Group will include the incremental fair value of the equity instruments granted in the measurement 
of the amount recognized for services received. If the modification increases the number of the equity instruments granted, 
the Group will include the fair value of additional equity instruments granted in the measurement of the amount recognized 
for services received. The increase in the fair value of the equity instruments granted is the difference between fair value 
of the equity instruments before and after the modification on the date of the modification. If the Group modifies the terms 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
273 
or conditions of the share -based payment arrangement in a manner that reduces the total fair value of the share -based 
payment arrangement, or is not otherwise beneficial to the employee, the Group will continue to account for the services 
received as if that modification had not occurred, other than a cancellation of some or all the equity instruments granted. 
 
If cancellation of the equity instruments granted occurs during the vesting period, the Group will account for the 
cancellation of the equity instruments granted as an acceleration of vesting, and recognize immediately the amount that 
otherwise would have been recognized over the remainder of the vesting period in profit or loss for the period, with a 
corresponding recognition in capital reserve. When the employee or counterparty can choose whether to meet the non -
vesting condition but the condition is not met during the vesting period, the Group treats it as a cancellation of the equity 
instruments granted. 
 
26. Revenue 
26.1  Accounting policies applied in revenue recognition and measurement 
The revenue of the Group is mainly generated from business types as follows: 
(1) Revenue from sale of products 
Product sales revenue is the revenue from sales of video surveillance products, smart home products, robotics products 
and other products of the Group. 
(2) Project construction revenue 
Project construction revenue is the revenue from constructions related to intelligent security solution projects and PPP 
Projects provided by the Group. 
(3) Cloud service and other service revenue 
Revenue from cloud services and other services refers to cloud services such as storage services, video services, and 
telephone services provided by the Group, maintenance services related to security projects, and other services, etc.  
 
When (or as) a performance obligation in a contract was satisfied, i.e., when (or as) the customer obtains control of relevant 
goods or services, the Group recognizes as revenue the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to that performance 
obligation. A performance obligation is the Group’s commitment to transfer to a customer a good or service (or a bundle 
of goods or services) that is distinct, in a contract with the customer. The transaction price is the amount of consideration 
to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding 
amounts collected on behalf of third parties and amounts that the Group expects to refund to the customer. 
 
Revenue is recognized over time by reference to the progr ess towards complete satisfaction of the relevant performance 
obligation if one of the following criteria is met: (1) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits 
provided by the Group’s performance as the Group performs; (2) the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset 
that the customer controls as the Group performs; or (3) the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
274 
alternative use to the Group and the Group has an enforceable right to payment for performance comple ted to date. 
Otherwise, revenue is recognized at a point in time when the customer obtains control of the distinct good or service. 
 
The Group adopts the output method to determine the progress of performance, that is, the progress of contract 
performance is determined according to the value of the goods or services that have been transferred to the customer in 
the view of the customer. When the performance progress cannot be reasonably determined, and the costs incurred can be 
expected to be compensated, the Group recognizes revenue based on the amount of costs incurred until the performance 
progress can be reasonably determined. 
 
If the contract contains two or more performance obligations, the Group allocates the transaction price to each single 
performance obligation on the contract start date in accordance with the relative proportion of the individual selling price 
of the goods or services promised by each single performance obligation. However, if there is strong evidence that the 
contract discount or variable consideration is only related to one or more (but not all) performance obligations in the 
contract, the Group allocates the contract discount or variable consideration to the relevant one or more performances 
obligation. Individual selling price refers to the price at which the Group sells goods or services to customers separately. 
Where the individual selling price cannot be directly observed, the Group comprehensively considers all relevant 
information that can be reasonably obtained, and uses the observable input value to the maximum to estimate the individual 
selling price. 
 
If there is variable consideration in the contract, the Group determines the best estimate of variable consideration based 
on the expected value or the most likely amount. T he transaction price including variable consideration shall not exceed 
the amount that is likely to cause no significant reversal of accumulated recognized revenue when the relevant uncertainty 
is eliminated. At each balance sheet date, the Group re -estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be 
included in the transaction price.  
 
For sales with sales return terms attached, as the customer obtains ownership of related goods, the Group recognizes 
revenue in accordance with the consideration (excluding expected refund amounts due to sales returns) that the Group is 
expected to receive due to the transfer of goods or services to the customer, and recognizes expected liabilities in 
accordance with expected refund amounts due to sales returns. The remaining amount, subsequent to deduction of expected 
costs from collecting the goods (including the decrease in value of the returned goods), is recognized as an asset in 
accordance with the carrying amount during the expected transfer of returned goods after deducting the costs of the above 
net assets carried forward. 
 
For sales with quality assurance clauses, if the quality assurance provides a separate service beyond the assurance to the 
customer that the goods or services sold meet established standards, the quality assurance constitutes a single performance 
obligation. Otherwise, the Group conducts accounting for quality assurance responsibilities in accordance with the 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 13-Contingencies.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
275 
The additional purchase option of customers includes customer reward incentives. With respect to the additional purchase 
option with material rights provided to customers, the Group regards it as a single performance obligation, and recognizes 
relevant revenue upon obtaining the control over relevant goods or services by the customers who exercise the purchase 
option in future or upon lapse of such option. If a stand-alone selling price of the additional purchase option of customers 
is not directly observable, the Group shall consider all relevant information including the difference in discount obtained 
with and without the exercise of such option by customers and the possibility of exercising such option by customers 
during estimation. 
 
If there is a significa nt financing component in the contract, the Group determines the transaction price based on the 
amount payable in cash when the customer assumes control of the goods or services. The difference between the 
transaction price and the contract consideration i s amortized using the effective interest rate method during the contract 
period. On the contract commencement date, the Group does not consider the significant financing components in the 
contract if the interval between the customer obtaining control of t he goods or services and the price being paid by the 
customer is not more than one year. 
 
The Group judges whether the Group’s identity is the principal or agent when engaging in transactions based on whether 
it has control over the goods or services befor e transferring the goods or services to customers. If the Group is able to 
control the goods or services before transferring them to customers, the Group is the principal responsible person, and 
revenue is recognized based on the total amount of consideration received or receivable; otherwise, the Group is an agent 
and recognizes revenue based on the amount of commissions or fees which the Group is expected to be entitled to charge. 
The amount of commissions or fees is determined based on the total amount of consideration received or receivable net of 
the amount payable to other parties. 
  
When the Group collects amounts of sold goods or services in advance from the customer, the Group will firstly recognize 
the amounts as a liability and then transfer to revenue until satisfying relevant performance obligations. When the advances 
from customers is non-refundable and the customer may give up all or part of contract right, and the Group is expected to 
be entitled to obtain amounts associated with contract ri ghts given up by the customer, the above amounts shall be 
proportionally recognized as revenue in accordance with the model of exercising contract rights by the customer; otherwise, 
the Group will transfer the relevant balance of the above liability to rev enue only when the probability is extremely low 
for the customer to satisfy remaining performance obligations. 
 
The Group, as a private capital, entered into a PPP project contract with the government and provided construction, 
operation, maintenance and other services. The Group identifies each individual performance obligation in the contract, 
and allocates the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative proportion of the stand -alone 
selling price of each performance obligation. When providing construction services or outsourcing projects to other parties, 
whether the identity of the Group is the principle or agent is determined, and then accounting for construction revenue to 
confirm the contract assets is made. After the PPP pr oject is ready for use, the Group recognizes revenue related to 
operation and maintenance services. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
276 
27. Cost of Contract 
27.1 Cost of obtaining a contract 
Incremental costs incurred by the Group to obtain a contract (that is, costs that would not have occurred without a contract) 
and expected to be recovered are recognized as an asset, and amortized using the same basis as revenue recognition for 
the goods or services to which the asset relates, and included in current profit or loss. If the amortization pe riod of the 
asset does not exceed one year, it is included in current profit or loss when it occurs. Other expenses incurred by the Group 
in order to obtain the contract shall be included in current profit or loss when incurred, unless it is clearly borne by the 
customer.  
 
27.2 Cost of contract fulfillment 
The cost of the Group’s performance of a contract that does not fall within the scope of accounting standards other than 
the revenue standard and meets the following conditions is recognized as an asset:  (1) The cost is directly related to a 
current or anticipated contract; (2) The cost increases the Group’s resources for fulfilling performance obligations in the 
future; (3) The cost is expected to be recovered. The aforesaid assets are amortized on the s ame basis as the recognition 
of income from goods or services related to the assets, and are included in the current profit or loss. 
The Group’s asset in relation to contract costs are mainly contract performance costs, and they are included in inventories 
based on their current nature. 
 
28. Types of Governmental Subsidies and Accounting Treatment Methods 
Government subsidies refer to the monetary and non-monetary assets obtained by the Group from the government for free. 
Government subsidies are recognized when they can meet the conditions attached to the government subsidies and can be 
received. 
 
If a government subsidy is a monetary asset, it shall be measured at the amount received or receivable. 
 
28.1 Judgment basis and Accountant treatment of government subsidy related to assets 
The government subsidies for Chongqing Manufacture Base construction and etc. are used for constructions and forms 
long-term assets, and therefore are categorized as government subsidy related to assets.  
 
A government grant related to an asset is recognized as deferred income, and it should be evenly amortized to profit or 
loss over the useful life of the related asset. 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
277 
28.2 Judgment basis and accountant treatment of government subsidy related to income  
The Group rec eives government subsidies including subsidies for Core -electronics, High -end-general-Chips, and 
Infrastructural-software projects, subsidies for Value-Added-Tax rebate (VAT rebate), subsidies for special projects, tax 
refunds, and Value -Added-Tax deductio ns, etc. which are used to compensate the group -related costs or losses, and 
therefore are categorized as government subsidy related to income. 
 
For a government grant related  to income , such as subsidies for Core -electronics, High -end-general-Chips, and 
Infrastructural-software projects , if the subsidy is a compensation for related expenses or losses to be incurred in 
subsequent periods, it is recognized as deferred income, and recognized in profit or loss over the periods in which the 
related costs or losses are recognized; If the subsidy, such as VAT Rebate, is a compensation for related expenses or losses 
already incurred, it is recognized immediately in profit or loss for the period. 
 
For government subsidies related to the Group’s daily operations shall be booked into other income; for those not related 
to the Group’s daily operations, shall be booked into non-operating income/expense.  
 
For the policy-backed preferential subsidized loan, if the Ministry of Finance will appropriate the subsidy amount to  the 
lending bank, who will grant the loan to the Group at the policy -backed preferential interest rate, the actually received 
loan amount will be the entry value of the loan and the loan-related expenses will be calculated based on the loan principal 
and policy-backed preferential interest rate.  
 
29. Deferred Tax Assets / Deferred Tax Liabilities 
The income tax expenses include current income tax and deferred income tax.  
 
29.1. Current Income Tax 
At the balance sheet date, current income tax liabilities (or assets) for the current and prior periods are measured at the 
amount expected to be paid (or recovered) according to the requirements of tax laws. 
 
29.2 Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities  
For temporary differences between the carrying amounts of certain assets or liabilities and their tax base, or between the 
nil carrying amount of those items that are not recognized as assets or liabilities and their tax base that can be determined 
according to tax laws, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized through the balance sheet liability method. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
278 
Deferred tax is generally recognized for all temporary differences. Deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences 
are recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary 
differences can be utilized. However, for temporary differences associated with the initial recognition of goodwill and the 
initial recognition of an asset or liability arising from a transaction ( not a business combination) that affects neither the 
accounting profit nor taxable profits (or deductible losses) at the time of transaction, no deferred tax asset or liability i s 
recognized. 
 
For deductible losses and tax credits that can be carried forward, deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible losses and tax credits can be utilized. 
 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax a ssets arising from deductible temporary 
differences associated with such investments are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be taxable 
profits against which to utilize the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable 
future.  
 
On the balance sheet date, the deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are measured at the applicable 
tax rates in the period in which the related assets are recovered or the related lia bilities are recovered in accordance with 
the tax laws. 
 
Current and deferred tax expenses or income are recognized in profit or loss for the period, except when they arise from 
transactions or events that are directly recognized in other comprehensive income or in shareholders' equity, in which case 
they are recognized in other comprehensive income or in shareholders' equity; and when they arise from business 
combinations, in which case they adjust the carrying amount of goodwill. 
 
At the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed and reduced if it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the future to allow the benefit of deferred tax assets to be utilized. Such 
reduction in amount is reversed when it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available. 
 
29.3 Offset of Income Tax  
When the Group has a legal right to settle on a net basis and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset s 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously, current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis. 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
279 
When the Group has a legal right to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, and deferred tax assets and 
deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or 
different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realize the assets 
and liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are 
expected to be reversed, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis. 
 
30. Lease  
Lease refers to a contract that conveys the right to use an asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.  
The Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the inception date. The Group does not re-assess whether 
a contract contains a lease unless the terms and conditions of the contract are changed.  
 
30.1 The Group as the lessee  
 
30.1.1 Separating components of lease 
In case the contract contains one or more lease and non-lease components, the Group separates each lease component and 
non-lease component, and allocates the consideration to the lease and non -lease components based on the proportion of 
relative stand-alone prices of the components.  
 
30.1.2 Right-of-use assets  
The Group recognizes the right-of-use assets for leases on the commencement date of the lease term, except for short-term 
lease and lease of low -value assets. The commencement date of the lease term refers to the date from which the le ssor 
makes the leased assets available for use by the Group. Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost. The cost includes:  
 Initial measurement amount of lease liabilities;  
 Amount of lease payment made at or before the commencement date of the lease, less any lease incentives received;  
 Initial direct costs incurred by the Group;  
 An estimate of any costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling and removing the underlying asset, or restoring 
the site on which it is located, or restoring the leased assets to the conditions as agreed under the terms of the lease, 
excluding costs incurred to produce inventories.  
 
The Group calculates depreciation of the right-of-use assets in accordance with the relevant depreciation provisions of 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 4 - Fixed Assets. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter 
of the lease term and the useful life of the right -of-use asset, unless there is a transfer of ownership or purchase option 
which is reasonably certain to be exercised at the end of the lease term.  
The Group determines whether the right -of-use assets are impaired and accounts for the identified impairment loss in 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 8 - Impairment of Assets.  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
280 
30.1.3 Lease liabilities  
The Group initially measures the lease liability on the commencement date at an amount equal to the present value of the 
lease payments during the lease term that are not paid at that date , except short-term lease and lease of low-value assets. 
In calculating the present value of the lease payments, the Group adopts the interest rate implicit in the lease as the discount 
rate. The Group uses its incremental borrowing rate if the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined.  
 
Lease payments refer to the payments made by the Group to the lessor in connection with the right to use the leased asset 
during the lease term, including:  
 Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable;  
 The exercise price of a purchase option, if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option;  
 Payments for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising the option to terminate the lease; 
 Amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees. 
 
After the commencement date of the lease term, the Group calculates interest expense of lease liabilities in each period of 
lease term at fixed periodic rate and recognizes in the current loss and profit or relevant asset costs.  
 
After the commencement date of the lease term, the Group remeasure s the lease liability and adjust s the corresponding 
right-of-use assets under the following circumstances. If the carrying value of the right-of-use assets has been reduced to 
zero while the lease liability needs to be further reduced, the Group will recognize the difference into the current loss and 
profit:  
 In case of any change of the lease term or any change in the valuation of the purchase option, the Group remeasures 
the lease liability at the present value calculated based on the modified lease payments and the revised discount rate;  
 In the event of any change in the amount expected to be payable based on the residual value guarantee s, the Group 
remeasures the lease liability at the present value calculated based on the changed lease payments and the original 
discount rate.  
 
30.1.4 Short-term lease and lease of low-value assets  
The Group has elected not to recognize the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets. Short-term lease refers to lease with a term no more than 12 months from the commencement date of lease 
term and without purchase option. Lease of low-value assets refers to lease for single lease asset with low value when it 
is new. The Group recognizes lease payments under short -term leases and leases of low -value assets as the current loss 
and profit or the relevant asset costs on a straight-line basis over each period during the lease term.  
 
30.1.5 Lease modification  
In case of lease modification, the Group makes accounting treatment of such lease change as a separate lease if all of the 
following conditions are met: 
 such lease modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more lease assets;  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
281 
 the increased consideration is commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in scope and any appropriate 
adjustments to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.  
 
Where accounting treatment is not made for lease modification as a separate lease, at the effective date of lease 
modification, the Group reallocate s the contract consideration after the modification, redetermines the lease term, and 
remeasures the lease l iability based on the present value calculated according to the modified lease payments and the 
revised discount rate.  
 
In the event that the lease scope is decreased or the lease term is shortened as a result of the lease modification, the Group 
reduces the carrying amount of the right-of-use assets, and recognizes the relevant gains or losses relating to the partial or 
full termination of the lease in the income statement; for the lease liabilities remeasured due to other lease modifications, 
the Group adjusts the carrying amount of the right-of-use assets accordingly.  
 
30.2 The Group as the lessor  
 
30.2.1 Separating components of lease  
In case the contract contains both lease and non -lease components, the Group allocates the contract consideration in 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 14 - Revenue on portion of 
transaction prices, based on the respective stand-alone prices of the lease component and the non-lease component.  
 
30.2.2 Classification of lease  
Finance lease is a lease that substantially transfers all the risks and rewards of incidental to ownership of an underlying 
asset. Operating lease refers to the leases other than finance lease.  
 
30.2.2.1 The Group records the operating lease business as the lessor  
The Group recognizes the lease payments from operating leases as rental income on a straight-line basis for all periods 
over the lease term. The Group's initial direct costs incurred in connection with operating leases is capitalized as incurred, 
recognized in the income statement over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income.  
 
30.2.2.2 The Group records the finance lease business as the lessor  
On the commencement date of the lease term, the Group uses the net lease investment as the carrying value of the finance 
lease receivables and derecognizes the finance lease assets. Net lease investment is the sum of present value of 
unguaranteed residual value and lease payments receivable  discounted at the  interest rate implicit in lease on the 
commencement date of the lease term.  
 
Lease payments receivable, which refer to amounts receivable by the Group from the lessee for conveying the right to use 
the leased assets during the lease term, include:  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
282 
 Fixed payment including in-substance fixed payments by the lessee, less any lease incentives payable;  
 The exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option;  
 Payments for terminating the lease (if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising the option to terminate the lease; 
 Residual value guarantees provided to the Group by the lessee, a party related to the lessee, or a third party unrelated 
to the lessor that is capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee. 
The Group calculates and recognizes the interest income in each period of the lease term according to the fixed periodic 
interest rate.  
 
30.2.3 Lease modification  
In case of modification of the operating lease, the Group accounts for it  as a new lease as of the effective date of the 
modification, any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to the original lease are considered as payments for the new 
lease .  
 
In case of modification of the finance lease, the Group accounts for the modification of a finance lease as a separate lease 
if all of the following conditions are met:  
 The modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more lease assets;  
 The consideration for the lease increases by an amount that is commensurate with the stand -alone price for the 
increase in scope, and any appropriate adjustments to that price to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.  
 
If a modification of finance lease is not accounted for as a separate lease, the Group accounts for the changed lease under 
the following circumstances:  
 If the modification becomes effective on the commencement date of the lease and the lease is classified as an 
operating lease, the Group accounts for it as a new lease from the effective date of the lease modification and measures 
as the net lease investment prior to the effective date of the lease modification as the carrying value of the leased 
asset.  
 If the modification becomes effective on the commencement date of the lease and the lease is classified as a finance 
lease, the Group accounts for it in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
No. 22 - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments regarding the modification or renegotiation of 
contracts.  
 
30.2.4 Sale and leaseback transaction  
 
30.2.4.1 The Group as the seller-lessee  
The Group assesses and determines whether the transfer of the asset in sale and leaseback transaction qualifies as a sale in 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 14 - Revenue. If the transfer does 
not qualify as a sale , the Group continue s to recognize the transferred asset and at the same time recognize a financial 
liability equal to the transfer proceeds and account for the financial liability in accordance with the provi sions of 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
283 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 22 - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments. If the 
transfer of the asset  qualifies as a sale , the Group measure s the right -of-use asset arising from the leaseback as the 
proportion of the previous carrying amount of the asset that relates to the right of use retained. The gain or loss recognized 
is limited to the proportion of the total gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the buyer-lessor.  
 
30.2.4.2 The Group as the buyer-lessor  
If the transfer of the asset in a sale and leaseback transaction does not qualify as a sale, the Group does not recognize the 
transferred asset, but recognize s a financial asset equal to the transfer proceeds and account for the financial  asset in 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 22 - Recognition and Measurement 
of Financial Instruments. If the transfer of the asset qualifies as a sale, the Group accounts for the purchase of the asset in 
accordance with other applicable Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises and account for the lease of the asset.  
31. Important Judgments while Applying Accounting Policy, and Key Assumptions and Uncertainty Factors 
Applied for Accounting Estimate 
During the process of using accounting policy described in note (III), due to the uncertainty in operation activities, the 
group should judge, estimate and assume the book value of the report items which may not be metered reliably. These 
judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on the historical experience of the Group's management and other related 
factors. Differences may exist between the actual results and the Group’s estimate.  
 
The Group regularly reviews the above judgments, assumptions and es timations on the basis of continuous operation. If 
the changes of accounting estimate only influence current period, the influence amount will be affirmed during the 
changing period; if it influences the current period and subsequent periods, the influence amount will be recognized in the 
current period and future period.  
- Key assumptions and uncertainties used in accounting estimate  
On balance sheet date, key assumptions and uncertainties for performing accounting estimates on book value of assets and 
liabilities in subsequent future periods are:   
 
Impairment provision for inventories 
Except for contract performance costs, inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. For raw 
materials, the latest or future actual purchase price is used as the basis for determining the net realizable value; For products 
in progress, the actual selling price of the latest or future finished product minus the estimated costs and costs that will be 
incurred when similar products are completed in the current period, the estimated selling expenses and related taxes to be 
incurred, is used as the basis for determining the net realizable value; For finished products, the actual selling price of the 
latest or future finished product minus the estimated selling expenses and related taxes will be incurred, is used as the basis 
for determining the net realizable value. The Group will regularly conduct a comprehensive stocktaking to review the 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
284 
impairment circumstances on defective, obsoleted or slow-moving inventory if any; in addition, the Group's management 
will regularly review the impairment circumstance of inventory with long storage time according to the inventory aging 
list. The review procedure includes the comparison between book value of defective, obsoleted or slow-moving inventories 
and inventory with long storage time and its corresponding net realizable value in order to determine whether to withdraw 
provisions on the defective, obsoleted or slow-moving inventory and inventory with long storage time. Based on the above 
procedure, the Group's management deems that the full provision amounts have been withdrawn for inventory.  
 
Impairment of accounts receivable  
Except for accounts receivable whose credit losses are determined on the basis of individual basis, the Group adopts an 
impairment matrix to determine its expected credit loss provision. Based on the historical loss rate, the Group determines 
the proportion of corresponding loss reserves for various types of accounts receivable with similar risk characteristics. The 
impairment matrix is determined based on the historical overdu e ratio and default of the Group, taking into account 
reasonable and well-founded industry forward-looking information. As of December 31st 2021, the Group has reassessed 
the historically observable overdue ratio and considered changes in forward -looking information. The amount of the 
provision for expected credit losses will change as the estimation of the Group. The details on the provision for expected 
credit losses of the accounts receivable of the Group are given in Note (V). 4.  
 
Useful life and predicted net residual value of fixed asset  
The Group's estimation of fixed assets useful life is based on the historical experience of actual usable term of fixed assets 
with similar properties and functions, the estimation of predicted net residual value is the amount obtained currently by 
the Group from the assets after deducting the anticipated disposal expense based on the anticipated status assuming the 
conditions that fixed assets' predicted useful life expires and fixed assets are at the end of useful l ife. The Group shall 
conduct the review on the predicted service life and predicted net residual value of fixed assets at least annually. For the 
current reporting period, the Group's management did not see signs either indicating a shortened or extended useful life of 
the Group’s fixed asset or indicating a change in predicted net residual value.  
 
Accrued liabilities of product quality warranty 
Accrued liabilities of product quality assurance are costs and expenses incurred to meet the established standar ds of 
product quality assurance obligations to customers in accordance with the product contract; the Group made such an 
estimation according to the predicted repair and replacement cost of relevant products. The estimation considers the 
product claim rate trend, historic defect rate, industry practice and other major estimations. The management deems that 
the current estimation on accrued liabilities of product quality warranty is reasonable, however, the Group will continue 
to review the conditions of product repairs, and will conduct adjustment if any sign indicating the need to make adjustments 
on accounting estimates.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
285 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are measured at the applicable income tax rate during the 
period when the relevant asset is expected to be recovered or the relevant debt is expected to be paid off.  The expected 
applicable income tax rate is determined according to the relevant current tax regulations and th e actual situation of the 
Group. If the estimated income tax rate is different from the original estimate, the management of the Group will adjust it. 
 
The realization of deferred income tax assets mainly depends on the actual future profits and the effect ive tax rate of 
temporary difference in the future applicable years. If the actual profit in the future is less than the estimation, or actua l 
tax rate is lower than the estimation, then the confirmed deferred income tax assets will be reversed and confirmed in the 
income statement during the corresponding period. If the actual profit in the future is more than the estimation, or actual 
tax rate is higher than the estimation, then the corresponding deferred income tax assets might be adjusted and confirmed 
in the income statement during the corresponding period.  
 
Goodwill impairment 
When performing impairment test on goodwill, the predicted present value of future cash flows of relevant asset group or 
asset group portfolio included the goodwill need to be c alculated, the future cash flows of relevant asset group or asset 
group portfolio need to be estimated, and the proper pretax rate that fairly reflects the current market time value of money 
and specific asset risk need to be determined. When the future ac tual result is different from the original estimation, the 
goodwill impairment loss will alter.  
 
Fair value measurement and valuation process 
Held-for-trading financial assets, receivables for financing, and other non -current financial assets of the Group  are 
measured at fair value in the financial statement. When valuating the fair value of these assets, the Group preferably uses 
obtainable and observable market data. If no observable data is available, the Group will organize an internal evaluation 
panel or hire qualified third-party valuers to conduct valuation. The Finance Department and evaluation panel of the Group 
will work closely with the hired valuers to determine appropriate valuation techniques and the input values of the valuation 
model. The valuation techniques and input values used for valuating the fair value of various assets are disclosed in Note 
(IX). 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
286 
32. Significant Alternation in Accounting Policy and Accounting Estimations 
32.1 Significant changes in accounting policies  
Changes in accounting policies and reasons Approval 
Procedures Notes 
New Lease Standards  
 
Since January 1 st 2021 (the “First Adoption Date ”), the Company has implemented the 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 21 – Leases revised by the Ministry of 
Finance in 2018 (hereinafter referred to as the “New Lease Standards,” and the Lease Standards 
before the revision referred to as the “Original Lease Standards”). The New Lease Standards 
refine the definition of a lease, and add  content on the identification, splitting and merger of 
leases; eliminate the classification of leases by lessees as an operating lease or financing lease, 
and require the recognition of right-to-use assets and lease liabilities of all leases on the starting 
date of the lease term (excluding short -term leases and leases of low -value assets), with 
depreciation and interest expenses recognized separately; and improve the subsequent 
measurement of leases by lessees, add an accounting method in the instance of option revaluation 
and lease modification, and increase related disclosure requirements. In addition, they also widen 
the scope of disclosure of lessors. Please refer to Note (III) 30 for the revised accounting policies 
of the Company on the recognition and measurement of leases as lessee and lessor. 
 
For contracts existing before the date of initial application , the Group chose not to reassess 
whether it is a lease or contains a lease on the date of initial execution.  
 
The Group as the lessee  
 
The Group adjusts the amount of retained earnings and the amount of relevant items in the 
financial statements on the initial application date according to the cumulative impact of the  
initial application of the New Lease Standards, in which the information of the c omparable is 
not be adjusted.  
 
For operating lease other than low -value lease prior to the date of initial adoption, the Group 
elects to apply one or more of the following simplified approach depending on each lease:  
 Any lease that will be completed within 12 months of the date of initial execution 
shall be treated as short-term lease;  
 The same discount rate shall be used for leases with similar characteristics when 
measuring the lease liability;  
 The measurement of right-of-use assets does not include initial direct costs;  
 In case of any extension option or termination option, the Group may determine the 
lease term according to the actual exercise of the option before the first adoption 
date and other latest conditions;  
 If a lease is modified occurs before the date of initial adoption, the Group will 
account for it according to the final arrangement of the lease modification.  
 
On the date of initial adoption, the Group makes the following adjustments as a result of the 
implementation of the New Lease Standards:  
 For finance lease prior to the date of initial adoption, the Group will respectively 
measure the right -of-use asset and lease liability based on the original carrying 
values of the finance lease assets and finance lease payables on the date of initial 
adoption.  
 For operating lease prior to the date of initial adoption, the Group shall measure the 
lease liability on the date of initial adoption based o n the current value of the 
remaining lease payments discounted according to the lessee's incremental 
Such 
alternations 
in 
accounting 
policy were 
approved 
by the 
Group at 
board of 
director 
general 
meeting. 
None 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
287 
borrowing rate on the date of initial adoption, and measure the right-of-use asset at 
an amount equal to the lease liability, with necessary adjustments to prepaid rent.  
 
The Group recognizes lease liabilities (including due within one year) of RMB 386,475,961.59 
and right-of-use assets of RMB 392,997,553.30 as of January 1 st 2021. For operating leases 
before the date of initial adoption, the Group shall use the present value discounted by the 
incremental borrowing rate on the first adoption day to measure the lease liabilities. The range 
of incremental borrowing rate is from 1.14% to 9.50%.  
 
The impact of the Group's adoption of the New Lease Standards as of January 1st 2021 is detailed 
in Note (III), 32.2.  
 
The Group as the lessor 
The Group does not adjust the lease as a lessor in accordance with the transition regulations, and 
conducts accounting treatment in accordance with the new lease standards from the date of initial 
application. 
 
Interpretation No. 14 of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
 
The Ministry of Finance issued and implemented the Interpretation No. 14 of Accounting 
Standards for Business Enterprises  (the "Interpretation No. 14") on February 2 nd 2021, 
regulating the accounting treatment of private capital parties for Public -Private Partnership 
(PPP) project contracts. 
 
Accounting treatment of PPP project contracts 
 
A PPP project contract refers to a contract entered into by the private capital and the government 
for a PPP project, which conforms to the following characteristics: (1) the private capital shall 
provide public goods and services by using PPP project assets on behalf of the government 
during the operation period agreed in the contract; (2) the private capital shall be compensated 
for the public goods and services provided by it within the period agreed in the contract. A PPP 
project contract also meets the following conditions: (1) the gover nment controls or regulates 
the types, objects and prices of public goods and services that the private capital must provide 
for the use of PPP project assets; (2) upon termination of the PPP project contract, the 
government shall control the significant r esidual interest of the PPP project assets through 
ownership, income rights or other forms. 
 
The Group enters into PPP project contracts with the government as a private capital. The Group 
provides construction services (including construction and reconstr uction and expansion) or 
subcontracts them to other parties, and determines whether the Group is the principle or the agent 
for accounting treatment according to Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 14 - 
Revenue, and confirms the contract assets. 
 
If the contract stipulates that the Group provides various services (such as construction service 
for PPP project assets, and operation service and maintenance service after completion), 
according to Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 1 4 - Revenue, separate 
performance obligations shall be identified and the transaction price shall be allocated to each 
performance obligation based on the relative proportion of the standalone selling price of each 
performance obligation. 
 
If the contract stipulates that the Group is entitled to receive a determinable amount of cash (or 
other financial assets) during the operation of the project, the receivables shall be recogni zed 
when the Group has the right to receive such consideration (which is conditioned on the passage 
of time ). When the PPP project assets reach a predetermined usable state, the Group shall 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
288 
 
32.2 The impact of the implementation of the New Lease Standards on the relevant items in the consolidated balance 
sheet at the beginning of the period is shown below: 
Unit: RMB 
Item  December 31st 2020  Reclassified (Note) January 1st 2021 
Current Assets:       
Prepayments  296,334,689.86 (2,952,118.77) 293,382,571.09 
Other receivables     519,143,350.82  (117,288.00)     519,026,062.82  
Other current assets     497,914,506.64  (477,453.85) 497,437,052.79 
Non-current Assets:       
Fixed assets  5,876,007,536.60  (45,330,337.75)  5,830,677,198.85  
Right-of-use assets -                             392,997,553.30      392,997,553.30   
Current Liabilities:       
Non-current liabilities due 
within one year  3,507,680,339.78  137,118,074.50  3,644,798,414.28 
Non-current Liabilities:       
Long-term payables       39,595,459.35  (23,052,993.27) 16,542,466.08 
Lease Liabilities -                            230,055,273.70      230,055,273.70   
 
Note: Due to the implementation of the New Lease Standards, the Group reclassif ies prepaid rents totaling RMB 
3,546,860.62, which were previously included in prepayments, other receivables and other current assets to right -of-use 
assets; reclassifies financial lease assets of RMB 45,330,337.75 previously included in fixed assets to right-of-use assets; 
reclassifies finance lease payments of RMB 23,052,993.27 previously included in long-term payables and the finance lease 
payments of RMB 19,302,613.39 previously included in non -current liabilities which due within one year  to lease 
liabilities (including those due within one year). For operating leases prior to the date of initial adoption, the Group adopts 
the new lease standard to recognize right-of-use assets of RMB 344,120,354.93 and lease liabilities (including those due 
within one year) of RMB 344,120,354.93. On January 1st 2021, the Group recognized a total of RMB 230,055,273.70 of 
lease liabilities, RMB 156,420,687.89 of lease liabilities due with in one year and RMB 392,997,553.30 of right -of-use 
assets. 
 
 
recognize as intangible assets the difference between the consideration or the recogni zed 
construction income of relevant PPP project assets, and the determinable amount of cash (or 
other financial assets) that the Group is entitled to receive. 
 
For the part where the Group recognizes the consideration or the recognized construction income 
of relevant PPP project assets as intangible assets, the contract assets recogni zed during the 
relevant construction period shall be presented in the item of intangible assets; and other contract 
assets recognized during the relevant construction period shall be presented in the items of 
contract assets or other  non-current assets based on whether they are expected to be realized 
within one year since the date of the balance sheet. 
 
In accordance with the Interpretation No. 14, the Group implements accounting treatment for 
the new PPP projects from January 1st 2021 to the implementation date of the Interpretation No. 
14 in accordance with requirements under the Interpretation. The Group has made retroactive 
adjustments to relevant PPP project contracts that were implemented before December 31st 2020 
and have not been completed until the implementation date of the Interpretation No. 14. For 
relevant amounts under cumulative impact, retained earnings and the amounts of other relevant 
items in the financial statements as at January 1st 2021 has bee n adjusted, and the data in 
comparable period has not been adjusted. Details of the impact of the adoption of the 
Interpretation No. 14 by the Company on January 1st 2021 are set out in Note (III) 32.3.  
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
289 
The impact of the implementation of the new lease standards on the relevant items of the parent company's balance 
sheet at the beginning of the period is set out below:  
Unit: RMB 
Item  December 31st 2020  Reclassified (Note) January 1st 2021 
Non-current Assets:       
Right-of-use assets  -  66,446,154.01  66,446,154.01  
Current Liabilities:    
Non-current liabilities due 
within one year  3,219,794,958.37  29,999,165.05  3,249,794,123.42  
Non-current Liabilities:    
Lease Liabilities -    36,446,988.96  36,446,988.96  
 
Note: Due to the implementation of the new lease standards, the Company  recognizes right-of-use assets of RMB 
66,446,154.01 and lease liabilities (including those due within one year) of RMB 66,446,154.01.  
 
Information on the difference between the Group's lease liability recognized as of January 1 st 2021 and the 
significant operating lease commitments disclosed in the financial statements of the fiscal year of 2020 is as follows:  
   Unit: RMB 
Item January 1st 2021 
I. Operating lease commitments as of December 31st 2020 408,812,072.84 
Lease liabilities discounted at the incremental borrowing rate on the date of initial adoption 377,897,839.67 
Less: Recognition of exemptions - short-term leases and leases of low-value assets 33,777,484.74 
Lease liabilities recognized in connection with the original operating lease upon implementation of the new 
lease standards 344,120,354.93 
Add: Finance lease payables as of December 31st 2020 (including due within one year) 42,355,606.66 
II. Lease liabilities as of January 1st 2021 386,475,961.59 
Including: Non-current liabilities due within one year 156,420,687.89 
         Lease liabilities 230,055,273.70 
 
The components of the carrying value of right-of-use assets as of January 1st 2021 are as follows:  
Unit: RMB  
Item January 1st 2021 
Right-of-use assets:  
Right-of-use assets recognized under operating leases prior to the date of initial adoption 344,120,354.93 
Reclassified prepaid rent 3,546,860.62 
Finance leased assets recognized as fixed assets under the Original Lease Standards  45,330,337.75 
Total 392,997,553.30 
 
On January 1st 2021, right-of-use assets are disclosed by category as follows:  
Unit: RMB  
Item January 1st 2021 
Building and construction 333,243,923.96 
General-purpose equipment (Note) 135,811.98 
Special-purpose equipment (Note) 45,194,525.77 
Transportation vehicles  14,423,291.59 
Total  392,997,553.30 
Note: The Group recognized the general -purpose equipment and special -purpose equipment  that were classified as 
                                                  Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
290 
financial leases under the original lease standards which were still leased on January 1st 2021 as right-of-use assets, with 
book values of RMB 135,811.98 and RMB 45,194,525.77, respectively. 
 
32.3 The impact of the implementation of Interpretation No. 14 on the relevant items in the consolidated balance sheet at 
the beginning of the year is shown below: 
Unit: RMB 
Item  December 31st 2020 Adjustments  January 1st 2021 
Current Assets:    
Accounts receivable 21,979,380,716.86 76,687,200.93 22,056,067,917.79 
Contract assets 245,754,510.98 73,650,033.12 319,404,544.10 
Non-current assets due within one year 1,001,208,813.83 (150,337,234.05) 850,871,579.78 
Non-current Assets:    
Long-term receivables 2,105,570,004.53 (1,619,823,514.21) 485,746,490.32 
Intangible assets 1,251,317,923.69 70,649,800.00 1,321,967,723.69 
Other non-current assets 721,511,156.08 1,549,173,714.21 2,270,684,870.29 
Note: Due to the implementation of Inter pretation No. 14, on January 1 st 2021, the Group reclassifies  RMB 
1,619,823,514.21 originally included in long -term receivables and RMB 150,337,234.05 originally included in non -
current assets due within one year to accounts receivable of RMB 76,687,200.93, contract assets of RMB 73,650,033.12 
and other non -current assets of RMB 1,549,173,714.21. The difference between the amount of construction revenue 
recognized for the relevant PPP project assets and the right to receive a determinable amount of cash is recognized as 
intangible assets of RMB 70,649,800.00. 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
291 
IV. Taxes 
1. Major Categories of Taxes and Tax Rates 
Category of tax Basis of tax computation Tax rate 
Enterprise income tax Taxable income 25% (Note 1)  
VAT 
For the taxable product sales revenue or taxable labor revenue, the Company 
and its domestic subsidiaries are ordinary Value -added Tax payers; the V A T 
payable is the balance of input tax after deducting the deductible output tax. 
6%, 9%, 13% and simple 
collection rate of 5%, 3% 
(Note 3)  
City maintenance and 
construction tax Actual payable turnover tax  7%,5% 
Education surcharges Actual payable turnover tax  3% 
Local education 
surcharges Actual payable turnover tax  2% 
 
Note 1: Except that this Company and subsidiaries in China are applicable to the following tax preference, this Company's 
other subsidiaries in China are applicable to 25% of enterprise income tax rate, the overseas subsidiaries are applicable to 
corresponding local tax rate.  
(1) In accordance with the Letter of Reply on Publishing the List of Identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province 
in 2020 (Guo Ke Huo Zi [2020] No. 251) issued by the Leading Group Office of National High -tech Enterprise 
Identification Management on December 29 th 2020, the Company was identified as the high -tech enterprise with a 
valid term of 3 years, from 2020 to 2022.  
 
In accordance with the  Notice on Printing and Distributing the List of Key Software Enterprises and IC Design 
Enterprises in the National Planning Layout for 2013 -2014 (Fa Gai Gao Ji [2013] No. 2458), the Company was 
recognized as a national key software enterprise in 2013. According to the Announcement on the Enterprise Income 
Tax Policies for  Promoting the High -quality Development of Integrated Circuit  Industry and Software Industry  
(Ministry of Finance, State Administration of Taxation, National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of 
Industry and Information Technology Announcement [2020] No. 45) , the Company  was approved by the tax 
authorities in May 2021 to pay the 2020 annual corporate income tax at the rate of 10%. As of the approval date of 
this report, the Company ’s preferential income tax in 2021 has not been verified and approved. Therefore, the 
Company’s enterprise income tax in 2021 is still calculated and paid at the rate of 15% (2020: 15%). 
 
(2) In accordance with Finance and Taxation [2011]  No. 58 Document of Ministry of Finance, State Administration of 
Taxation and General Administration of Customs, the wholly-owned subsidiaries, Chongqing Hikvision Technology 
Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Chongqing Technology") and Chongqing Hikvision System Technology Co., Ltd. 
(hereinafter referred to as "Chongqing System"), are qualified to enjoy the west development preferential tax policy 
from 2011 to 2020. According to the , Announcement on Continuation of the Corporate Income Tax Policy  for the 
Western Development (Ministry of Finance, State  Administration of Taxation, National Development and Reform 
Commission Announcement [2020] No.23) , Chongqing Technology and Chongqing System will still enjoy the 
preferential policies for the Western Development from 2021 to 2030. Therefore, the current enterprise income tax is 
calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period (2020:15%). 
 
(3) In accordance with the Replies on Publishing the List of First Batch of identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang 
Province in 2018 (GuoKeHuoZi [2019] No. 70) issued by the Leading Group Office of Zhejiang High-tech Enterprise 
Identification Management Work on February 20th 2019, the Company’s joint venture subsidiary, Hangzhou Fuyang 
Baotai Security Technology Service Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Fuyang Baotai"), was recognized as a high-
tech enterprise and was valid for 3 years from 2018 to 2020. According to the Recording List of the First Batch of 
identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province in 2021 issued by the Leading Group Office of National High-
tech Enterprise Identification Management Work on January 24 2022, Fuyang Baotai is still identified as a high-tech 
enterprise, and the validity period of the identification is 3 years, from 2021 to 2023. Therefore, the enterprise income 
tax is calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period (2020:15%). 
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
292 
  
(4) In accordance with the  Replies on Publishing identified High -tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province in 2019 
(GuoKeHuoZi [2020] No. 32) issued by the leading group office of Zhejiang high -tech enterprise identification 
management work on January 20 th 2020, the Company’s wholly -owned subsidiary, Hangzhou Hikvision System 
Technology Co., Ltd. ( hereinafter referred to as " Hangzhou System") and the Company’s joint venture subsidiary 
Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as " Hangzhou Kuangxin") , was recognize d as a 
high-tech enterprise and was valid for 3 years from 2019 to 2021. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated 
and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period (2020:15%). 
 
(5) In accordance with the Notice on Publishing the List of Third Batch of Proposed Identified High-tech Enterprises of 
Shanghai in 2020  issued by Shanghai High -tech Enterprise Identification Office on November 20 th 2020, the 
Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Shanghai Goldway Intelligent Transportation System Co., Ltd. ( hereinafter 
referred to as "Shanghai Goldway") was identified as the high-tech enterprise with a valid term of 3 years, from 2020 
to 2022. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and paid on the basis of  a reduced tax rate of 15% in the 
current reporting period (2020:15%). 
 
(6) In accordance with the Letter of Reply on Publishing the List of Identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province 
in 2020 (Guo Ke Huo Zi [2020] No. 251) issued by the Leading Group Office of National High -tech Enterprise 
Identification Management on December 29 th 2020, the Company’s joint -venture subsidiary, Hangzhou Hikrobot 
Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou Robotic Technology") were identified as the high -tech 
enterprises with a valid term of 3 years, from 2020 to 2022. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and paid 
on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period (2020:15%). 
 
 
(7) In accordance with the Letter of Reply on Publishing the List of Identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province 
in 2020 (Guo Ke Huo Zi [2020] No. 32) issued by the Leading Group Office of National High -tech Enterprise 
Identification Management on January 20 th 2020, the Company ’s joint -venture subsidiary, Hangzhou Hikmicro 
Sensing Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou Hikmicro Sensing") were identified as the high-
tech enterprises with a valid term of 3 years, from 2019 to 2021. 
 
According to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People's Republic of China, the National 
Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the National State Administration of Taxation, 
No. 9 of 2021 Announcement on the Enterprise Income Tax Policy for Promoting the High-quality Development of 
the Integrated Circuit Industry and Software Industry (Ministry of Finance, State Administration of Taxation, National 
Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Announcement [2020] No. 
45), Notice on Requirements for Formulating Lists of Integrated Circuit Enterprises, Projects and Software 
Enterprises enjoying Preferential Tax Policies (Fa Gai Gao Ji [2021] No. 413), Hangz hou Hikmicro Sensing is an 
integrated circuit design enterprise established before December 31st 2017. The qualified enterprise will be exempted 
from corporate income tax for the first year to the second year from the profitable year, and levied half of the corporate 
income tax at a statutory tax rate of 25% from the third year to the fifth year. The year of 2021 is the first year of 
Hangzhou Hikmicro Sensing making profits and is exempt from enterprise income tax.  
 
(8) In accordance with the Announcement on the Enterprise Income Tax Policies for Promoting the High -quality 
Development of Integrated Circuit Industry and Software Industry   (Ministry of Finance, State Administration of 
Taxation, National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry  of Industry and Information Technology 
Announcement [2020] No. 45), , enterprises engaging in integrated circuit design, equipment, materials, packaging, 
testing and software encouraged by the state are entitled to exemption from enterprise income tax in the first and 
second years after start of profiting and pays enterprise income tax at half of the 25% statutory tax rate in the third to 
fifth years. The Company’s joint venture subsidiaries, Hangzhou EZVIZ Software Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
"EZVIZ Software") and Hangzhou Microimage Software Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou Microimage 
Software"), are qualified software companies and are entitled to exemption from enterprise income tax in 2021 (2020: 
tax-exempted). 
 
(9) According to the Recording List of the First Batch of identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province in 2021 
issued by the Leading Group Office of National High-tech Enterprise Identification Management Work on January 24 
2022, the Company’s joint venture subsidiaries Hangzhou Hikstorage Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred as 
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
293 
"Hangzhou Hikstorage") is identified as a high-tech enterprise with a validity period of 3 years, from 2021 to 2023. 
Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current 
reporting period (2020: 25%). 
 
Note 2: In accordance with the requirements of the Notice on Software Product Value-added Tax Policy (Cai Shui [2011] 
No. 100) promulgated by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation, as for self-developed software 
products sales of the Company, Hangzhou System, the Company’s joint-venture subsidiaries such as Hangzhou Hikrobot 
Technology, Hangzhou Auto Software Co., Ltd.,  Hangzhou EZVIZ Software, Hangzhou Hik storage, Hangzhou 
Hikimaging Technology, Hangzhou Hikfire Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "HikFire"), Hangzhou Rayin 
Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou Rayin Technology"), Hangzhou Microimage Software, Henan 
Haikang Hua’An BaoQuan Electronics Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hua’An BaoQuan Electronics") and Hangzhou 
Kuangxin, the V AT shall be calculated and paid with tax rate of 13% at first, then the portion with actual tax bearing excess 
3% shall be refunded after State Administration of Taxation reviews. 
 
Note 3: In accordance with the Announcement on Relevant Policies for Deepening the Value -Added Tax Reform (Joint 
Announcement [2019] No. 39) jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation and the 
General Administration of Customs, from April 1 st 2019 to December 31 st 2021, taxpayers in the production and living 
services industry are allowed to deduct an additional 10% of the current deductible input tax to deduct the tax payable 
(“Additional Deduction Policy”), the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, a part of Hangzhou Hikvision Technology 
Co., Ltd.’s subsidiaries , Hangzhou Hikvision Security Equipment Leasing Service Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
"Hangzhou Leasing"), Anhui Hikvision Urban Operation Service Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Anhui Urban 
Service"), and the Company’s joint venture subsidiaries, Hangzhou Kuangxin, Zhejiang Haikang City Service Co., Ltd. 
Luliang Branch, Henan Hua’An Bao Quan Intelligent Development Co., Ltd.  Luoyang Branch, Henan Hua’an Security 
Services Co., Ltd. ( hereinafter referred to as " Hua’an Security Services "), and Henan Haika ng Hua’An BaoQuan 
Electronics Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Branch meet the industry requirements, and their sales accounted for more than 50% of 
its total sales, are complying with the provisions of the Additional Deduction Policy and were entitled to additional 
deduction preferential tax policy of input tax since April 1st 2019. 
  
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
294 
V. Notes to Items in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1. Cash and Bank Balances   
 
 Item 
Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Foreign 
currency 
amount 
Exchange rate 
for conversion  RMB amount  
Foreign 
currency 
amount 
Exchange 
rate for 
conversion 
RMB amount 
Cash：       
RMB - - 16,909.86 - - 17,959.62 
EUR 41,743.98  7.2197 301,379.03  71,638.34   8.0250   574,897.70  
INR 2,288,210.50  0.0857  196,099.64  2,504,019.19   0.0891   223,108.11  
USD 33,133.82 6.3757 211,251.31  32,776.72   6.5249   213,864.82  
GBP 2,343.11  8.6064  20,165.74  6,341.78   8.8903   56,380.33  
Other currencies - - 1,105,467.95 - - 18,836.93 
       
Bank balance：       
RMB  -  - 31,577,521,085.40  -  -  27,789,108,210.05  
USD 272,857,839.86 6.3757 1,739,659,729.57  941,351,972.89  6.5249  6,142,227,487.92  
EUR 96,011,075.74 7.2197 693,171,163.55  52,026,066.91  8.0250  417,509,186.97  
GBP 17,199,784.69 8.6064 148,028,226.97    11,204,897.40  8.8903  99,614,899.38  
INR  1,092,845,025.79   0.0857 93,656,818.71   1,203,270,539.96  0.0891  107,211,405.11  
RUB 731,254,280.94 0.0855 62,522,241.02 1,742,132,380.50  0.0877  152,785,009.77  
BRL 36,644,426.85 1.1436 41,906,566.54  54,535,451.03  1.2551  68,447,444.59  
CAD 6,629,301.03 5.0046 33,176,999.93  5,383,485.44  5.1161  27,542,449.88  
HKD 31,824,133.26   0.8176 26,019,411.35  13,632,862.61  0.8416  11,473,417.17  
MXN 75,249,325.96 0.3116 23,447,689.97 - -  
THB 121,837,799.11 0.1912 23,295,387.19  14,687,508.85  0.2328  3,419,252.06  
JPY   392,086,869.13   0.0554 21,721,612.55  336,505,067.09  0.0632  21,267,120.24  
PLN 10,745,706.25 1.5717 16,889,026.51  12,359,893.85  1.7520  21,654,534.02  
ZAR 39,232,629.30 0.4004 15,708,744.77  14,765,683.20  0.4458  6,582,541.57  
KRW 2,683,059,127.78 0.0054 14,488,519.29  855,655,685.00  0.0060  5,133,934.11  
AED   5,055,058.19 1.7361 8,776,086.53   36,263,518.29  1.7761  64,407,634.83  
AUD 1,886,989.36 4.6220 8,721,664.84  2,279,274.45  5.0163  11,433,524.41  
Other currencies  -  - 25,075,802.57  -  -  18,195,337.35  
       
Other currency funds:       
RMB - - 112,293,072.17 - - 463,887,119.07 
USD 3,595,184.37 6.3757 22,921,816.99 3,101,420.39 6.5249 20,236,457.90 
EUR 580,030.78 7.2197  4,187,648.22 465,821.33 8.0250 3,738,216.17 
Other currencies - - 6,830,343.19 - - 2,748,878.19 
       
Total   34,721,870,931.36   35,459,729,108.27 
Including: deposited in 
overseas banks   737,750,220.06   782,389,029.81 
 
Details of other currency funds: 
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
295 
 
2. Held-for-trading Financial Assets   
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Financial assets measured at fair value through current gain and loss 34,320,010.83  22,679,846.77  
Including: derivative financial assets  34,320,010.83  22,679,846.77  
Total  34,320,010.83  22,679,846.77  
 
On December 31st 2021, derivative financial assets included forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange option 
contracts and interest rate swap contracts. The notional amount of forward foreign exchange contracts is RMB 
982,803,001.81 (2020: RMB 1,875,987,806.80) , the notional amount of foreign exchange option contracts is RMB 
127,514,000.00 (2020: RMB 326,245,000.00) and the notional amount of interest rate swap contracts is RMB 
389,142,481.68 (2020: Nil). The above forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange option contracts and interest 
rate swap contracts are not designated as hedging instruments, and the gains or losses arising from changes in their fair 
values are directly included in the current profit and loss. 
 
 
 
  Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Item 
Foreign 
currency 
amount 
Exchange 
rate for 
conversion 
RMB amount 
Foreign 
currency 
amount 
Exchange 
rate for 
conversion 
RMB amount 
Capitals with limitations：       
Bank acceptance bill - - 35,387,135.77 - - 8,484.61 
Deposits for letter of guarantee - - 51,980,170.28 - - 44,417,713.65 
Other security deposits - - 4,679,097.53 60,000.00 4.7050 282,300.00 
Deposits for letter of Credit in BRL - - - 283,313.18 1.2551 355,586.37 
Tax Operation Margin for India - - - 120,305.95 0.0891 10,719.26 
Other capitals with limitations - - 25,880,098.58 - - 389,816,426.07 
 Subtotal   117,926,502.16   434,891,229.96 
       
Capitals without limitations:       
Deposit in Alipay, Tenpay, etc. - - 27,469,681.96 - - 25,263,562.38 
Other currency funds in USD 119,611.52 6.3757 762,607.17 4,662,441.59 6.5249 30,421,965.14 
Other currency funds in EUR 10,262.10 7.2197 74,089.28 3,965.11 8.0250 31,820.01 
Other currency funds in ZAR - - - 23,875.03 0.0877 2,093.84 
Subtotal   28,306,378.41   55,719,441.37 
       
Total   146,232,880.57   490,610,671.33 
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
296 
3. Notes Receivable 
1) Categories of notes receivable 
Unit：RMB 
Category Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Bank acceptance bill   1,228,046,849.95   1,003,388,157.28 
Commercial acceptance bill 294,714,055.35 299,864,547.91 
Total  1,522,760,905.30     1,303,252,705.19 
 
2) As of December 31st 2021, the pledged notes receivable by the Group is nil.  
 
3) At the end of the current reporting period, notes receivable endorsed by the Group but not yet due at the balance 
sheet day  
Unit：RMB 
Category Derecognized amount as of December 
31st 2021 
Amount not derecognized as of 
December 31st 2021 
Bank acceptance bill Note (V) 30.3 - 711,238,103.83 
Total - 711,238,103.83 
 
Note: Transfer of financial assets 
 
As of December 31st 2021, the Group gave RMB 711,238,103.83 (2020: RMB 482,454,604.99) undue bank acceptance 
bills to suppliers for endorsement. Since the Group has not transferred almost all the risks and rewards of ownership of 
financial assets, the Group has not terminated its confirmation. For details, please refer to Note (V) 30.3. 
 
4) As of December 31st 2021, the Group transferred the defaulted notes receivable into accounts receivable.  
Unit：RMB 
Category Amounts transferred into accounts receivable as of December 31st 2021 
Commercial Acceptance Bill 104,372,882.41 
Total 104,372,882.41 
 
5) The Group believes except for bills that are transferred to accounts receivable due to the failure of the drawer to 
perform the contract, the bank acceptance bills and commercial acceptance bills held by the Group do not have 
significant credit risks and w ill not cause major losses due to the counterparty’s default. Therefore, no loss 
provision is made. 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
297 
4. Accounts Receivable 
1) Disclosure by aging 
Unit: RMB 
Item  
Closing Balance 
Accounts receivable Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Within credit period 16,624,872,547.82  177,834,756.44   1.07  
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 8,356,240,264.84  372,160,503.23   4.45  
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 1,507,966,937.94  333,458,412.68   22.11  
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 1,005,164,963.25  492,661,398.25   49.01  
3-4 years after exceeding credit period 392,162,927.88  335,519,470.71   85.56  
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period 315,024,416.44 315,024,416.44  100.00  
Subtotal 28,201,432,058.17 2,026,658,957.75  7.19  
 
2) Classified disclosure of credit loss provision by methods 
Unit: RMB 
Category 
Closing Balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Book Value 
Amount Proportion (%) Amount Proportion (%)  Amount 
Provision for credit loss on a single basis - - - - - 
Provision for credit loss by portfolios 28,201,432,058.17   100.00   2,026,658,957.75   7.19  26,174,773,100.42  
Total 28,201,432,058.17   100.00  2,026,658,957.75   7.19  26,174,773,100.42  
Category 
Beginning Balance (Restated) 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Book Value 
Amount Proportion (%) Amount Proportion (%)  Amount 
Provision for credit loss on a single basis - - - - - 
Provision for credit loss by portfolios 23,573,877,737.66   100.00   1,517,809,819.87   6.44  22,056,067,917.79  
Total 23,573,877,737.66   100.00  1,517,809,819.87   6.44  22,056,067,917.79  
 
Provision for credit loss by portfolios for accounts receivable 
Unit: RMB 
Customer 
Closing balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Portfolio A 3,806,501,754.60 92,528,632.14  2.43  
Portfolio B 18,681,447,755.29 1,765,923,934.20  9.45  
Portfolio C 5,713,482,548.28 168,206,391.41  2.94  
Total  28,201,432,058.17 2,026,658,957.75  7.19  
 
Description of credit loss provision by portfolios for accounts receivable 
  
As part of the Group's credit risk management, the Group uses the ageing of accounts receivable to assess the expected 
credit losses of accounts receivable formed by domestic and overseas sales business, and divides the risk characteristics 
into portfolio A, portfolio B and portfolio C, according to the business area and object. These three portfolios involve a 
large number of customers with the same risk characteristics. Aging information is able to reflect the solvency of these 
three types of customers when the accounts receivable are due.
                                                                                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
298 
As of December 31st 2021 and January 1st 2021, the credit risk and expected credit losses of accounts receivable from portfolio A are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Age  
 Closing balance  Beginning balance 
Estimated average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Credit loss 
provision  Book value  Estimated average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value Credit loss 
provision Book value 
Within credit period  0.04  3,095,392,524.62  1,291,742.49   3,094,100,782.13  0.02  2,971,260,488.09 604,959.50  2,970,655,528.59 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period  1.70  594,470,571.01  10,117,916.29   584,352,654.72  2.02  640,220,646.55 12,955,798.75  627,264,847.80  
1-2 years after exceeding credit period  44.11  50,793,800.93  22,404,389.00   28,389,411.93  51.50  82,533,903.30 42,503,136.38  40,030,766.92  
2-3 years after exceeding credit period  83.73  43,832,222.47  36,701,948.79   7,130,273.68  90.10  40,717,280.97 36,686,603.66  4,030,677.31 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  19,359,244.96  19,359,244.96   -    100.00  5,809,507.07  5,809,507.07   -    
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  2,653,390.61 2,653,390.61  -    100.00  830,934.85 830,934.85  -    
Total   2.43  3,806,501,754.60 92,528,632.14  3,713,973,122.46  2.66 3,741,372,760.83 99,390,940.21 3,641,981,820.62 
 
As of December 31st 2021 and January 1st 2021, the credit risk and expected credit losses of accounts receivable from portfolio B are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Age  
 Closing balance  Beginning balance (restated) 
Estimated average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Credit loss 
provision  Book value  Estimated average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Credit loss 
provision  Book value  
Within credit period  1.99  8,575,278,759.81  170,679,301.15   8,404,599,458.66  0.76  6,294,425,956.16  48,017,503.05   6,246,408,453.11  
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period  4.63  7,167,632,732.53  331,869,605.70   6,835,763,126.83  3.78  5,799,607,133.14  219,408,150.28   5,580,198,982.86  
1-2 years after exceeding credit period  19.80  1,387,932,595.51  274,788,108.40   1,113,144,487.11  20.69  1,436,628,039.73  297,283,759.42   1,139,344,280.31  
2-3 years after exceeding credit period  44.75  914,771,713.21  409,398,421.89   505,373,291.32  57.51  665,262,321.85 382,616,768.44  282,645,553.41  
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  83.68  347,000,938.34  290,357,481.17   56,643,457.17  83.09  238,233,041.29 197,947,096.87   40,285,944.42  
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  288,831,015.89  288,831,015.89   -  100.00  146,749,340.78 146,749,340.78   -    
Total   9.45  18,681,447,755.29 1,765,923,934.20 16,915,523,821.09  8.86  14,580,905,832.95 1,292,022,618.84  13,288,883,214.11  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
299 
As of December 31st 2021 and January 1st 2021, the credit risk and expected credit losses of accounts receivable from portfolio C are as follows:  
Unit: RMB 
Age  
 Closing balance  Beginning balance 
Estimated average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Credit loss 
provision Book value  Estimated average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Credit loss 
provision Book value  
Within credit period  0.12  4,954,201,263.39  5,863,712.80   4,948,337,550.59  0.20  4,736,831,208.62  9,676,562.96  4,727,154,645.66 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period  5.08  594,136,961.30  30,172,981.24   563,963,980.06  6.84  391,071,518.27  26,753,464.86  364,318,053.41 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period  52.38  69,240,541.50  36,265,915.28   32,974,626.22  51.18  69,085,009.97 35,354,825.98 33,730,183.99 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  46,561,027.57  46,561,027.57   -     100.00  28,016,950.72  28,016,950.72   -    
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  25,802,744.58  25,802,744.58   -     100.00  11,470,715.01  11,470,715.01   -    
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  23,540,009.94  23,540,009.94   -     100.00  15,123,741.29  15,123,741.29   -    
Total   2.94  5,713,482,548.28 168,206,391.41  5,545,276,156.87  2.41  5,251,599,143.88 126,396,260.82 5,125,202,883.06 
 
3) Credit loss provision 
Provision, re-collection, or reverse of the credit loss provision in the current reporting period 
Unit: RMB 
Credit loss provision Total 
Balance on January 1st 2021 (restated) 1,517,809,819.87 
Provision/(reverse) during the current reporting period  566,389,266.23  
Derecognition of financial assets (including direct write-downs) and transfer out (54,561,920.83)  
Difference arised from foreign currency statement translation  (2,978,207.52) 
Balance on December 31st 2021 2,026,658,957.75 
Actual write-off of accounts receivable during current reporting period:  
In the current reporting period, the amount of actual accounts receivable write-off is RMB 55,152,653.63, and RMB 590,732.80 is recollected after writing-off. 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
300 
4) Top five debtors based on corresponding closing balance of accounts receivable 
Unit: RMB 
Name of the Party 
Relationship 
with the 
Company 
Book value balance 
of accounts 
receivable 
Closing balance for credit loss 
provision 
Proportion (%) of the total 
balance of accounts 
receivable at the end of the 
current reporting period 
CETC’s subsidiary company A  
(Note) Related Party  373,842,942.92   129,057,296.16   1.33  
Third Party A Third party  340,541,342.55   2,962,709.68   1.21  
Third Party B Third party  213,520,031.59   1,857,624.27   0.76  
Third Party C Third party  141,703,906.59   1,232,823.99   0.50  
Third Party D Third party   139,825,164.14   1,931,817.02 0.50  
Total     1,209,433,387.79   137,042,271.12  4.30 
 
Note: A subsidiary of CETC is a subsidiary of China Electronics Technology Group Co., Ltd., the Company's ultimate 
controller. 
 
5) As of December 31st 2021, there is no termination of accounts receivable booking due to transfer of a financial 
asset.  
6) As of December 31st 2021, the Group has no assets/liabilities booked due to transferred accounts receivable that 
the Group still continue to be involved in. 
5. Receivables for Financing  
        
1) Receivables for financing by categories 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Bank acceptance bill  1,316,035,122.06 1,959,601,195.25 
Total 1,316,035,122.06 1,959,601,195.25 
2) At the end of the reporting period, the Group’s pledged receivables for financing 
Unit: RMB 
Item Amount pledged as of December 31st 2021 
Bank acceptance bill  4,337,929.69 
Total   4,337,929.69   
 
3) At the end of the reporting period, receivables for financing endorsed or discounted by the Group that have not 
yet expired on the balance sheet date. 
Unit: RMB  
Item Derecognized amount as of December 
31st 2021 
Amount not derecognized as of December 
31st 2021 
Bank acceptance bill  2,800,863,150.72 - 
Total 2,800,863,150.72 - 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
301 
4) The Group believes that the acceptance bank's credit rating of the bank acceptance bill held is high, and there is 
no significant credit risk, so no loss provision is made. 
6. Prepayment 
1) Prepayments by aging analysis 
                           Unit: RMB   
Aging 
Closing Balance Opening Balance (Restated) 
Carrying amount Proportion (%) Carrying amount Proportion (%) 
Within 1 year 472,051,582.19 93.33 261,740,350.78  89.22  
1-2 years 16,837,633.29 3.33 20,302,314.17  6.92  
2-3 years 12,180,525.79 2.41 9,021,070.25  3.07  
Over 3 years 4,728,512.08 0.93 2,318,835.89  0.79  
Total  505,798,253.35 100.00 293,382,571.09  100.00  
     
2) Closing balances of top five prepayments parties 
As of December 31 st 2021, the Group ’s top five balances of prepayments amounted to RMB 165,956,536.73, 
accounting for 32.81% of total closing balance of prepayments.  
 
                                                                                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
302 
7. Other Receivables 
1) Other receivables by aging  
 Unit: RMB  
Item  
Closing Balance 
Other receivables Bad debt provision Proportion (%) 
Within contract period  297,564,204.37 2,587,782.99  0.87 
Within 1 year   52,387,962.11 1,743,779.91  3.33 
1-2 years   7,248,182.48 1,343,438.08  18.53 
2-3 years  9,568,207.30 3,943,058.26  41.21 
3-4 years   5,983,084.56 4,120,660.15  68.87 
Over 4 years   12,437,987.22 11,830,462.77  95.12 
Subtotal  385,189,628.04 25,569,182.16  6.64 
 
2) Other receivables by nature of the payment 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing Balance Opening Balance (Restated) 
Temporary payments for receivables 113,230,687.20 294,409,377.31 
Guarantee deposits 216,176,255.21 173,447,240.76 
Tax rebates 762,862.50 67,714,444.77 
Investment intention fund 4,000,000.00 1,000,000.00 
Others 51,019,823.13 33,758,132.77 
Total   385,189,628.04  570,329,195.61 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
303 
3) Provision for credit loss 
Unit: RMB 
Category Opening balance 
Amount of changes in the current reporting period Difference resulted from 
foreign currency 
statements 
Conversion 
Closing balance 
Provision or reverse Recollect Resell or write off 
Other receivables  51,303,132.79 409,000.25 (25,640,443.39) - (502,507.49)  25,569,182.16 
Total  51,303,132.79 409,000.25 (25,640,443.39)  - (502,507.49)  25,569,182.16 
 
Changes in credit loss provisions for other receivables  
Unit: RMB 
bed debts allowance  
 
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 
Total Expected credit losses in the 
next 12 months 
Expected credit loss for the entire 
duration (credit impairment has not 
incurred) 
Expected credit loss for the entire 
duration (credit impairment has 
occurred) 
Balance on January 1st 2021  3,092,760.15  9,818,044.78   38,392,327.86  51,303,132.79  
The book balance of other receivables on January 1st 
2021 in the current reporting period     
--Transfer into stage 2 (411,469.92) 411,469.92 - - 
-- Transfer into stage 3 - (1,995,928.05) 1,995,928.05 - 
--provision/(reverse) in the current reporting period 409,000.25  (5,146,368.66)  (20,494,074.73)  (25,231,443.14) 
Other changes  (502,507.49) - - (502,507.49)  
Balance on December 31st 2021  2,587,782.99   3,087,217.99  19,894,181.18   25,569,182.16  
 
4) The actual write-off of other receivables during the current reporting period:  
 The actual write-off of other receivables during the current reporting period is nil.  
 
 
 
                                                                                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
304 
5) Top five debtors based on corresponding closing balance of other receivables 
Unit: RMB 
Entities Relationship with the 
Company Nature Closing balance Aging Proportion of total closing balance 
for other receivables (%) 
Closing balance for credit loss 
provision 
Third party E Third party Guarantee deposits  6,927,179.05 Within 1 year 1.80%  293,019.67  
Third party F Third party Guarantee deposits  5,078,072.96 Within the contract period 1.32%  44,179.23  
Third party G Third party Guarantee deposits  5,000,000.00 Within the contract period 1.30%  43,500.00  
Third party H Third party Guarantee deposits  3,738,423.66 Within 2-3 years 0.97%  1,540,604.39  
Third party I Third party Guarantee deposits  3,550,000.00 Within the contract period 0.92% 30,885.00  
Total    24,293,675.67  6.31% 1,952,188.29 
 
6) As of December 31st 2021, the Group does not have other receivables related to government subsidies. 
 
7) As of December 31st 2021, there is no termination of other receivables booking due to transfer of a financial asset. 
 
8) As of December 31st 2021, the Group has no assets/liabilities booked due to any transferred other receivables that the Group continues to be involved in. 
8. Inventories 
1) Categories of inventories 
Unit: RMB  
Category 
Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Carrying amount 
Provision for decline in value of 
inventories/ Impairment provision 
for contract performance cost  
Book value Carrying amount 
Provision for decline in value of 
inventories/ Impairment provision 
for contract performance cost 
Book value 
Raw materials 7,947,851,148.15  233,046,765.20  7,714,804,382.95  5,307,099,264.63 96,173,520.97 5,210,925,743.66 
Work-in-progress  437,963,160.90   -     437,963,160.90  364,831,525.62 - 364,831,525.62 
Finished goods 9,760,949,606.67 702,675,806.16  9,058,273,800.51 5,863,464,370.61 516,926,580.56 5,346,537,790.05 
Contract performance cost 763,071,063.24  -    763,071,063.24 555,610,981.37 - 555,610,981.37 
Total 18,909,834,978.96  935,722,571.36  17,974,112,407.60  12,091,006,142.23 613,100,101.53 11,477,906,040.70 
                                                                                                                 Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
305 
2) Provision for decline in value of inventories 
Unit: RMB  
Category Opening balance Increase in the current 
reporting period 
Decrease in the current reporting period Effect on conversion of financial statements 
denominated in foreign currencies Closing Balance Reversals Write-off  
Raw materials 96,173,520.97  137,440,277.81  -  567,033.58   -     233,046,765.20  
Finished goods 516,926,580.56 297,173,954.13 -  96,860,925.14   (14,563,803.39)  702,675,806.16  
Subtotal 613,100,101.53 434,614,231.94  -   97,427,958.72  (14,563,803.39)  935,722,571.36  
 
The write-offs of provision for inventories in the current reporting period are due to use or sale of inventories. 
 
For contract performance cost recognized as an asset, the Group recognizes it into current profit or loss on the same basis as the revenue from goods relating to such asset, and is recognized 
at the point of time when the goods are delivered to and accepted by the counterparty; there was an amount of RMB 528,050,817.38 recognized during the current reporting period. 
 
                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
306 
9. Contract Assets 
1) Details of contract assets:  
Unit: RMB  
Items 
Closing Balance Opening Balance (Restated) 
Carrying amount Provisions for 
impairment Book value Carrying amount Provisions for 
impairment Book value 
Constructions 1,274,476,664.40   9,873,249.73  1,264,603,414.67  253,042,589.28  2,242,831.31 250,799,757.97  
Maintenance 
services  148,057,308.84   1,288,098.60   146,769,210.24   69,123,440.48   518,654.35  68,604,786.13  
Total 1,422,533,973.24   11,161,348.33  1,411,372,624.91  322,166,029.76  2,761,485.66 319,404,544.10  
 
2) The classification and disclosure of the method of provision for impairment of contract assets during the current 
reporting period: 
Unit: RMB 
Items 
Closing Balance 
Carrying amount Provisions for impairment Book value 
Amount Proportion 
(%)  Amount Provision 
proportion (%) Amount 
Provision for impairment on a single item - - - - - 
Provision for impairment by portfolio 1,422,533,973.24 100.00 11,161,348.33  0.78  1,411,372,624.91  
Total 1,422,533,973.24 100.00 11,161,348.33  0.78  1,411,372,624.91 
 
Provision, re-collection, or reverse in the current reporting period:  
Unit: RMB 
Credit loss provision 
Expected credit loss during the 
whole duration (No credit 
impairment occurred) 
Expected credit loss during the 
whole duration (Credit 
impairment occurred) 
Total 
Balance on January 1st 2021 (restated) 2,761,485.66  -  2,761,485.66  
Provision/reverse during the current 
reporting period  
8,399,862.67 - 8,399,862.67 
Balance on December 31st 2021 11,161,348.33 - 11,161,348.33 
 
Impairment provision for the current reporting period amounted to RMB 8,399,862.67, with no reversal, write -off or 
recovery of impairment provision during the current reporting period. 
 
Contract assets arise from the Group ’s construction works business as well as maintenance services relating to security 
projects. The Group provides construction works and maintenance services based on contracts with customers, and 
recognizes revenue based on the performance progress during the term of the contracts. The Group ’s customers make 
milestone payments for the construction works and maintenance services of the Group as provided in the contracts. For 
the portion where the Group has obtain ed an unconditional right to consideration, it will be recognized as accounts 
receivable, while the remaining portion will be recognized as contract assets; if the contract price received or receivable 
by the Group exceeds the performance obligation comple ted to date, the excess portion will be recognized as contract 
liabilities. The Group presents contract assets and contract liabilities under the same contract on a net basis. 
 
 
 
 
                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
307 
10. Non-current Assets Due within One Year 
  Unit: RMB  
Item Closing Balance Opening Balance (Restated) 
Long-term receivables due within one year (Note (V) 12) 975,960,437.14 850,871,579.78 
Total 975,960,437.14 850,871,579.78 
11. Other Current Assets 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Deductible VAT input 671,022,973.90 391,898,131.26 
Prepaid corporate income tax 146,600,985.54 41,520,799.46 
Prepaid tariff 113,756,173.22  22,446,422.69 
Others 91,220,245.12  41,571,699.38 
Total 1,022,600,377.78 497,437,052.79 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements ar 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
308 
12. Long-term Receivables 
1) Details of long-term receivables 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance (restated) Range of 
discount rate Carrying amount Provision for credit 
loss Book value Carrying amount Provision for 
credit loss Book value 
Financial leases receivables  338,676,520.11  32,408,674.53  306,267,845.58  332,860,621.51  21,387,061.50  311,473,560.01 0.54%-6.05% 
Including: Unrealized income from financing   15,579,721.55 -  15,579,721.55  20,751,939.07 -  20,751,939.07 - 
Installments for selling goods   881,821,037.32  87,043,902.28  794,777,135.04 1,094,609,682.99 69,465,172.90  1,025,144,510.09 4.24%-6.45% 
Including: Unrealized income from financing  26,548,778.33 -  26,548,778.33  40,238,738.24   -  40,238,738.24 - 
Employee housing loan  487,983,401.49 -  487,983,401.49 - - - 4.95% 
Including: Unrealized income from financing  59,389,998.51 -  59,389,998.51 - - - - 
Less: Non-current assets due within one year (Note (V) 10)  1,093,138,859.09  117,178,421.95  975,960,437.14 935,714,181.41  84,842,601.63  850,871,579.78 - 
Total   615,342,099.83  2,274,154.86  613,067,944.97 491,756,123.09 6,009,632.77  485,746,490.32 - 
  
2) Credit loss provision 
As part of the Group's credit risk management, in addition to employee housing loans, the Group uses the aging of long-term receivables to assess the expected credit losses of long-term 
receivables formed by financial leasing and installment collection business. The customers involved in financial leasing and installment collection business are mainly government 
department and state-owned enterprises and institutions. There are a large number of customers with the same risk characteristics. The aging information is able to reflect the repayment 
capability of these customers when the long-term receivables are due. 
 
As of December 31st 2021, the credit risk and expected credit losses of long-term receivables of these customers are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Age 
Closing balance 
Amounts Credit loss provision Estimated average loss rate (%) 
Within credit period  646,311,250.51  5,623,293.18  0.87 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period  263,839,586.40  11,158,541.08  4.23 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements ar 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
309 
Age 
Closing balance 
Amounts Credit loss provision Estimated average loss rate (%) 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period  181,691,364.31  33,921,777.72  18.67 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period  87,750,268.44  36,161,885.63  41.21 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  26,997,755.81  18,679,747.24  69.19 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  13,907,331.96  13,907,331.96  100.00 
 Total  1,220,497,557.43 119,452,576.81  9.79 
 
The changes in the Group's long-term receivables' expected credit loss provision for the current reporting period are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Credit loss provision 
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 
Total Expected credit losses in 
the next 12 months 
Expected credit losses for 
the entire duration  
(No credit impairment 
occurred) 
Expected credit losses for the 
entire duration  
(Credit impairment has occurred) 
Balance on January 1st 2021 (restated) 11,371,156.80  37,954,013.24   41,527,064.36   90,852,234.40  
On January 1st 2021, the book balance of long-term receivables in the current reporting period     
Transfer into stage 2 (3,113,307.12) 3,113,307.12 - - 
Transfer into stage 3 - (18,717,132.26) 18,717,132.26  - 
Provision/(reverse) during the current reporting period  (2,634,556.50) 22,730,130.70 8,504,768.21 28,600,342.41 
Balance on December 31st 2021 5,623,293.18 45,080,318.80  68,748,964.83  119,452,576.81 
 
3) As of December 31st 2021, there is no termination of long-term receivables booking due to transfer of a financial asset. 
 
4) As of December 31st 2021, the Group has no assets/liabilities booked due to any transferred long-term receivables that the Group continue to be involved in. 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements ar 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
310 
13. Long-term Equity Investment 
Unit: RMB 
The invested entity Opening 
Balance 
                       Increase/Decrease in the current reporting period 
Closing  
Balance 
Closing 
balance  
for 
impairment 
provision 
Additional 
Investments 
Investment 
 reduction 
Investment Profit 
(Loss) recognized 
under the equity 
Method 
Adjustment: 
 Other 
comprehensive  
income 
Other  
Changes 
 in equity 
Declaration of  
cash dividends 
 or profit  
distribution 
Impairment 
provision  others 
1. Joint venture companies 
Hangzhou Haikang 
Intelligent Industrial Equity 
Investment Fund 
Partnership (L.P.) 
612,479,371.62 - - 89,889,968.33 - - - - - 702,369,339.95 - 
Daishan Hailai Yunzhi 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
(“Daishan Hailai”)(Note 1) 
15,253,091.76 - - 645,353.20 - - (999,000.00) - (14,899,444.96) - - 
Zhejiang City Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd.  11,864,018.37 - - 350,301.92 - - - - - 12,214,320.29 - 
Zhejiang Haishi Huayue 
Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
9,985,577.32 - - 1,944,935.34 - - - - - 11,930,512.66 - 
Shenzhen Hikvision Urban 
Service Operation Co., Ltd.  6,029,569.69 - - (4,764,911.31) - - - - - 1,264,658.38 - 
Guangxi Haishi Urban 
Operation Management 
Co., Ltd. (Note2) 
5,296,695.36 3,000,000.00 - (3,664,494.77) - - - - - 4,632,200.59 - 
Yunnan Yinghai Parking 
Service Co., Ltd.  4,841,060.76 - - (282,179.67) - - - - - 4,558,881.09 - 
Xuzhou Kangbo Urban 
Operation Management 
Service Co., Ltd. (Note2) 
4,631,286.58 4,900,000.00 - (298,084.91) - - - - - 9,233,201.67 - 
Subtotal 670,380,671.46 7,900,000.00 - 83,820,888.13 - - (999,000.00) - (14,899,444.96) 746,203,114.63 - 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements ar 
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
311 
The invested entity Opening 
Balance 
                       Increase/Decrease in the current reporting period 
Closing  
Balance 
Closing 
balance  
for 
impairment 
provision 
Additional 
Investments 
Investment 
 reduction 
Investment Profit 
(Loss) recognized 
under the equity 
Method 
Adjustment: 
 Other 
comprehensive  
income 
Other  
Changes 
 in equity 
Declaration of  
cash dividends 
 or profit  
distribution 
Impairment 
provision  others 
2. Associated Companies 
Wuhu Sensor Technology 
Co., Ltd.  58,491,264.42 
- - 
16,975,212.42 
- - - - - 
75,466,476.84 - 
Maxio Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. 91,955,638.61 
- - 
12,581,889.69 
- - - - - 
104,537,528.30 
- 
Zhiguang Hailian Big Data 
Technology Co., Ltd.  21,253,058.87 
- - 
32,784.40 
- - - - - 
21,285,843.27 
- 
Sanmenxia Xiaoyun Vision 
Technology Co., Ltd. 3,671,496.93 
- - 
(602,110.90) 
- - - - - 
3,069,386.03 
- 
Jiaxin Haishi JiaAn 
Zhicheng Technology Co., 
Ltd. (Note2) 
8,479,131.27 12,000,000.00 - 1,175,611.18 
- - - - - 
21,654,742.45 
- 
Qinghai Qingtang Big Data 
Co., Ltd.  9,795,448.67 
- - 
153,006.26 
- - - - - 
9,948,454.93 
- 
Subtotal 193,646,038.77 12,000,000.00 - 30,316,393.05 
- - - - - 
235,962,431.82 
- 
Total  864,026,710.23 19,900,000.00 - 114,137,281.18 - - (999,000.00) - (14,899,444.96) 982,165,546.45 - 
Note 1：The Group includes Daishan Hailai in the scope of consolidated financial statements in 2021, and it is no longer accounted for as a joint venture. Please refer to Note (VI) 1 for 
details. 
Note 2: The Group made additional investment in the investee this year, and the proportion of equity held in the investee remained unchanged. 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
312 
14. Other Non-current Financial Assets 
Unit: RMB 
Invested Entity (Note 1) Shareholding 
% 
Opening 
balance 
Additional 
investment 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Investment 
recovery 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Changes in fair 
value during the 
current 
reporting period 
Closing balance 
CETC Finance Co., Ltd. 
(Note 2) 3.83% 423,435,737.20 - - (45,714,936.94) 377,720,800.26 
Hangzhou Confirmware 
Technology Co., Ltd.  9.52% 31,092,032.62 - - (4,277,193.66) 26,814,838.96 
Zhejiang Tuxun 
Technology Co.,Ltd. 
(Zhejiang Tuxun) 
8.13% 32,222,764.45 - - (3,222,764.45) 29,000,000.00 
Zhengzhou Guokong 
Smart City Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
7.00% 700,000.00 - - - 700,000.00 
Guangxi Jilian Haibao 
Technical Service Co., 
Ltd. 
10.00% 2,884,220.00 - - - 2,884,220.00 
Shenzhen Wanyu 
Security Service 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
5.00% 1,000,000.00 - - - 1,000,000.00 
Nanwang Information 
Industry Group Co., Ltd. 0.25% 604,313.00 - - - 604,313.00 
Total   491,939,067.27 - - (53,214,895.05) 438,724,172.22 
 
Note 1: It refers to the Group ’s equity investments of private companies. The Group has no control, joint control or 
significant influence over the invested company.  
 
Note 2: It is an enterprise controlled by CETC, the ultimate controlling party of the Group. Duri ng the current reporting 
period, the Company received a cash dividend of RMB 115,644,801.97 from China Electronic Technology Finance Co., 
Ltd. (2020: RMB 150,000,000.00) and recognized it as current profit and loss. Please refer to Note (V) 52 for details. 
15. Fixed Assets 
1) Details of fixed assets  
Unit: RMB 
Items Building and 
construction 
General-purpose 
equipment 
Special-purpose 
equipment 
Transportation 
vehicles Total 
I. Total original carrying amount      
1. Opening balance (restated) 5,100,087,402.39   941,827,698.48  2,045,911,036.97   96,077,396.86  8,183,903,534.70  
2. Increase in the current 
reporting period  793,892,828.70   451,748,264.69   341,197,135.46   12,948,583.65  1,599,786,812.50  
1) purchase  3,463,469.47   399,945,494.69   317,277,749.81   6,628,378.05   727,315,092.02  
2) transferred from 
construction in progress  725,317,455.23   12,600,791.51   23,919,385.65   -     761,837,632.39  
3) Increase due to business 
combination not under 
common control 
 65,111,904.00   39,201,978.49   -     6,320,205.60   110,634,088.09  
    3.Decrease in the current 
reporting period  47,120,425.71   18,746,909.37   64,738,596.94   9,697,070.45   140,303,002.47  
      1) disposal or write-off  47,120,425.71   18,746,909.37   64,738,596.94   9,697,070.45   140,303,002.47  
    4. Effect on conversion of  (6,279,079.76)   (8,704,926.28)   (3,560,443.31)   (480,620.81)   (19,025,070.16) 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
313 
Items Building and 
construction 
General-purpose 
equipment 
Special-purpose 
equipment 
Transportation 
vehicles Total 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
    5.Closing Balance 5,840,580,725.62  1,366,124,127.52  2,318,809,132.18   98,848,289.25  9,624,362,274.57  
II. Accumulated depreciation      
    1. Opening balance 
(restated)  992,312,042.71  368,072,360.10   937,821,068.08   55,020,864.96  2,353,226,335.85  
    2. Increase in the current 
reporting period  249,655,037.63  168,558,608.03   254,911,458.17   11,904,100.45   685,029,204.28  
     (1) accrual  249,655,037.63  168,558,608.03   254,911,458.17   11,904,100.45   685,029,204.28  
3.Decrease in the 
current reporting 
period 
 25,823,526.69   15,847,515.29   53,025,757.14   7,417,628.76   102,114,427.88  
(1) disposal or write-   
off  25,823,526.69   15,847,515.29   53,025,757.14   7,417,628.76   102,114,427.88  
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
 (759,626.03)   (4,651,337.25)   (1,746,499.39)   (212,046.28)   (7,369,508.95) 
5.Closing balance 1,215,383,927.62  516,132,115.59  1,137,960,269.72   59,295,290.37  2,928,771,603.30  
III. Total book value       
Closing balance on book value 4,625,196,798.00  849,992,011.93  1,180,848,862.46   39,552,998.88  6,695,590,671.27  
Opening balance on book value 
(restated) 4,107,775,359.68  573,755,338.38  1,108,089,968.89   41,056,531.90  5,830,677,198.85  
 
2) As of December 31st 2021, the Group did not have any significant idle fixed assets.  
3) As of December 31st 2021, the Group had not rent out any fixed asset through operating leasing. 
4) Fixed assets of which certificates of title have not been granted as of December 31st 2021： 
Unit: RMB  
Item Carrying amount Reason for certificates of title not granted 
Office building for branches 13,451,117.83 In the process of obtaining the real estate 
certificates  
Fuzhou High-tech Zone Innovation Park 94,622,498.88 In the process of obtaining the real estate 
certificates after transferred to fixed assets 
Chongqing Science and Technology Park Phase II Project 415,416,636.80 In the process of obtaining the real estate 
certificates after transferred to fixed assets 
Total 523,490,253.51  
                                                                                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
314 
16. Construction in Progress 
1)  Details of construction in progress 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provision Book value Carrying amount Provision Book value 
Chengdu Science and Technology Park Project 896,287,490.09 - 896,287,490.09   521,626,793.33 -  521,626,793.33  
Hangzhou Innovation Industry Park 393,310,782.16 - 393,310,782.16   337,821,702.49 -  337,821,702.49  
Security Industrial Base (Tonglu) Phase II 
Continued Construction Project 
 390,702,241.74   -   390,702,241.74   74,726,929.65  -  74,726,929.65  
Xi’an Science and Technology Park Project 181,009,327.21 - 181,009,327.21   12,679,174.93 -  12,679,174.93  
Shijiazhuang Science and Technology Park Project 100,184,640.21 - 100,184,640.21   2,060,553.46 -  2,060,553.46  
EZVIZ Smart Home Products’ Industrial Base 
Project (Infrastructure Part) 95,322,172.33 - 95,322,172.33  2,332,067.08 -  2,332,067.08  
Chongqing Science and Technology Park Phase II 
Project - - -  249,810,250.79 -  249,810,250.79  
Others 266,519,444.94  266,519,444.94  224,177,721.99   -     224,177,721.99  
Total  2,323,336,098.68   -  2,323,336,098.68   1,425,235,193.72   -     1,425,235,193.72  
2) Changes in significant construction in progress during the current reporting period 
Unit: RMB 
 
 
Item Budget 
(RMB 0,000) Opening balance 
Increase in the 
current reporting 
period 
Transferred to 
fixed assets 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Effect on 
conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated 
in foreign 
currencies 
Other 
Reductions 
(Note 1) 
Closing balance 
Amount 
invested as 
proportion 
of budget 
amount (%) 
Construction 
in Progress 
(%) 
Accumulated 
capitalized 
interest and 
profit/loss on 
exchange 
(Note 2) 
Including: 
capitalized interest 
and profit/loss on 
exchange for the 
current reporting  
period 
Capitalizat
ion rate 
for interest 
in the 
current 
reporting 
period (%) 
Source of 
funds 
Chengdu 
Science and 
Technology 
Park Project 
196,900.00 521,626,793.33   374,660,696.76   -     -     -     896,287,490.09 45.52% 45.52% - - - Self- 
financing 
Hangzhou 
Innovation 
Industry Park 
102,600.00  337,821,702.49   55,489,079.67   -     -     -     393,310,782.16  38.33% 38.33% (70,963,330.44) (124,649,345.63) 0.85% Special loan 
                                                                                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
315 
Item 
Budget 
(RMB 
0,000) 
Opening balance 
Increase in the 
current reporting 
period 
Transferred to 
fixed assets 
during the 
current reporting 
period 
Effect on 
conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated in 
foreign 
currencies 
 
Other 
Reductions 
(Note 1) 
Closing balance 
Amount 
invested as 
a proportion 
of budget 
amount (%) 
Construction 
in Progress 
(%) 
Accumulated 
capitalized 
interest and 
profit/loss on 
exchange 
(Note 2) 
Including: 
capitalized interest 
and profit/loss on 
exchange for the 
current reporting  
period 
Capitaliz
ation rate 
for 
interest in 
the 
current 
reporting 
period 
(%) 
Source of 
funds 
Security 
Industrial 
Base (Tonglu) 
Phase II 
Continued 
Construction 
Project 
85,100.00 74,726,929.65   315,975,312.09   -     -     -    390,702,241.74 45.91% 45.91% - - - Self- 
financing 
Xi’an Science 
and 
Technology 
Park project 
227,800.00  12,679,174.93   168,330,152.28   -     -     -     181,009,327.21  7.95% 7.95% - - - Self- 
financing 
Shijiazhuang 
Science and 
Technology 
Park Project 
89,800.00  2,060,553.46   98,124,086.75   -     -     -     100,184,640.21  11.16% 11.16% - - - Self- 
financing 
EZVIZ Smart 
Home 
Products 
Industrial 
Base Project 
(Infrastructure 
Part) 
75,257.00  2,332,067.08  92,990,105.25  -     -     -    95,322,172.33 12.67% 12.67% - - - Self- 
financing 
Security 
Industrial 
Base (Tonglu) 
Phase III 
77,000.00 659,304.24 48,109,601.71  -     -     -     48,768,905.95  6.33% 6.33%    Self- 
financing 
Zhengzhou 
Science and 
Technology 
Park Project 
48,500.00 13,529,409.53   28,500,043.29   -     -     -     42,029,452.82  8.67% 8.67% - - - Self- 
financing 
Wuhan 
Intelligence 
Industrial 
Park 
238,700.00 2,370,546.89 19,234,593.60  -     -     -     21,605,140.49  0.91% 0.91%    Self- 
financing 
Chongqing 
Science and 
Technology 
Park project- 
phase 2 
43,000.00  249,810,250.79   175,974,725.06  (425,784,975.85)   -     -     -    100.00% 100.00% - - - Self- 
financing 
Others   207,618,461.33  286,993,506.34 (336,052,656.54)  (1,576,075.70) (2,867,289.75)  154,115,945.68 - -  -   -   -  Self- 
financing 
Total 1,184,657.00 1,425,235,193.72 1,664,381,902.80 (761,837,632.39) (1,576,075.70) (2,867,289.75)  2,323,336,098.68   -   -  (70,963,330.44) (124,649,345.63)   
                                                                                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
316 
 
Note 1: Other reductions during the the current reporting period were the completed renovation that transferred to the long-term deferred expenses. 
 
Note 2: This amount is calculated by interest expense for specific foreign currency borrowings, less interest income for unused borrowing fund and profit/loss on exchange rate difference.  
 
As of December 31st 2021, the Group did not have any sign of impairment of projects under construction; therefore, no provision for impairment loss was booked. 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 317 
17. Right-of-use Assets 
Unit: RMB 
Items Building and 
construction 
General-purpose 
equipment 
Special-purpose 
equipment 
Transportation 
vehicles Total 
I. Total original carrying amount       
1. Opening balance (restated)  333,243,923.96   230,374.45   91,934,144.20   14,423,291.59   439,831,734.20  
2. Increased   381,865,373.66  - -  10,480,492.36   392,345,866.02  
 (1)New Lease   360,641,319.67  - -  10,480,492.36   371,121,812.03  
(2) Increase due to business 
combination not under 
common control 
 21,224,053.99  - - -  21,224,053.99  
3. Decreased   13,645,883.01  - -  55,450.93   13,701,333.94  
 (1) The lease contract 
expires or terminates early  13,645,883.01  - -  55,450.93   13,701,333.94  
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements denominated 
in foreign currencies 
(13,925,949.47)  - - (1,953,346.06)  (15,879,295.53)  
5. Closing balance  687,537,465.14   230,374.45   91,934,144.20   22,894,986.96   802,596,970.75  
II. Accumulated depreciation      
1. Opening balance (restated)  -  94,562.47   46,739,618.43  -  46,834,180.90  
2. Increased   169,004,407.93   50,014.45   21,357,177.93   7,950,776.09   198,362,376.40  
 (1) Provisions  169,004,407.93   50,014.45   21,357,177.93   7,950,776.09   198,362,376.40  
3. Decreased   6,370,832.58  - -  55,450.93   6,426,283.51  
 (1) The lease contract 
expires or terminates early  6,370,832.58  - -  55,450.93   6,426,283.51  
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements denominated 
in foreign currencies 
 (2,145,437.09)  - -  (421,538.70)   (2,566,975.79)  
5. Closing balance 160,488,138.26  144,576.92   68,096,796.36   7,473,786.46   236,203,298.00  
III. Total book value      
1. Closing balance on book value  527,049,326.88   85,797.53   23,837,347.84   15,421,200.50   566,393,672.75  
2. Opening balance on book value 
(restated)  333,243,923.96   135,811.98   45,194,525.77   14,423,291.59   392,997,553.30  
 
Note: The Group leased a number of assets, including building and construction, general-purpose equipments, special-
purpose equipments and transportation vehicles, for lease terms ranging from 1 to 13 years. 
 
In the current reporting period, the short-term lease expenses and low-value asset lease expenses that the Group included 
in the current profit and loss with simplified processing were RMB 82,001,765.42.  
 
The profit and loss arising from the sale -leaseback transaction of the Group this year was RMB 21,407,192.38 for the 
depreciation of the right-of-use asset. Please refer to Note (X) 5 for details. 
 
The total cash outflow related to leases for the year was RMB 272,298,575.65. 
 
As of December 31st 2021, the short-term lease portfolio committed by the Group is consistent with the short-term lease 
corresponding to the above lease fee. 
18. Intangible Assets 
1) Details of construction in progress 
Unit: RMB 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 318 
Item Land use right Intellectual property 
right Application Software Franchise Total 
I. Total original carrying 
amount 
     
1. Opening balance 
(restated) 
 1,224,893,932.49   70,044,034.88   298,812,867.42  83,741,415.51   1,677,492,250.30  
2. Increased  34,319,532.77  -  80,770,503.27   8,195,011.94   123,285,047.98  
(1) Purchase  34,319,532.77  -  80,770,503.27   8,195,011.94   123,285,047.98  
3. Decreased - -  1,589,705.68  -  1,589,705.68  
(1)Disposal or write-off - -  1,589,705.68  -  1,589,705.68  
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
-  (77,601.00)   (3,011,514.19)   (2,909.84)   (3,092,025.03)  
5. Closing balance  1,259,213,465.26   69,966,433.88   374,982,150.82  91,933,517.61   1,796,095,567.57  
II. Total accumulated 
amortization 
     
1.Opening balance 
(restated) 
 76,612,562.29   60,718,480.10   217,067,323.75   1,126,160.47   355,524,526.61  
2. Increased  26,980,428.75   4,345,702.67   98,918,896.79  10,463,080.36   140,708,108.57  
(1)Accrual  26,980,428.75   4,345,702.67   98,918,896.79  10,463,080.36   140,708,108.57  
3. Decreased - -  1,416,795.89  -  1,416,795.89  
(1)Disposal or write-off - -  1,416,795.89  -  1,416,795.89  
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
-  (61,588.49)   (2,905,511.37)   (586.93)   (2,967,686.79)  
5. Closing balance  103,592,991.04   65,002,594.28   311,663,913.28  11,588,653.90   491,848,152.50  
III. Total book value      
1. Closing balance on book 
value 
 1,155,620,474.22   4,963,839.60   63,318,237.54  80,344,863.71   1,304,247,415.07  
2. Opening balance on book 
value (restated) 
 1,148,281,370.20   9,325,554.78   81,745,543.67  82,615,255.04   1,321,967,723.69  
 
2) At the end of the current reporting period, the intangible asset of the Group that ha s not completed the title 
certificate is nil. 
19. Goodwill 
1) Goodwill book value 
Unit: RMB 
The name of the investee or the matter 
that forming a goodwill 
Opening 
balance 
Increased Decreased Effect on 
conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated in 
foreign 
currencies 
Closing balance 
Business combination 
not involving 
enterprises under 
common control 
Liquidation & 
cancellation 
Secure Holdings Limited (Note 1) 130,320,174.19 - 130,320,174.19 - - 
HuaAn Baoquan Intelligence and its 
subsidiaries 61,322,871.63 - - - 61,322,871.63 
Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Co., 
Ltd. 59,060,454.06 - - - 59,060,454.06 
Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., 
Ltd. (Note 1) 13,774,405.88 - 13,774,405.88 - - 
BK EESTI AKTSIASELTS 4,826,266.94 - - (484,310.63) 4,341,956.31 
SIA “BK Latvia” 4,819,569.44 - - (483,638.54) 4,335,930.90 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 319 
The name of the investee or the matter 
that forming a goodwill 
Opening 
balance 
Increased Decreased Effect on 
conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated in 
foreign 
currencies 
Closing balance 
Business combination 
not involving 
enterprises under 
common control 
Liquidation & 
cancellation 
Hikvision Joint-Stock Company 
(original name: ZAO Hikvision) (Note 
1) 
67,349.64 - 67,349.64 - - 
Hangzhou Haikang Zhicheng 
Investment and Development Co., 
Ltd.  
12,573.42 - - - 12,573.42 
SISTEMAS Y SERVICIOS DE 
COMUNICACIÓN, S.A. DE C.V . 
(“Syscom MX”) (Note 2) 
- 74,385,546.76 - (1,077,437.71) 73,308,109.05 
Total 274,203,665.20 74,385,546.76 144,161,929.71 (2,045,386.88) 202,381,895.37  
 
Note 1: Secure Holdings Limited, Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. and Hikvision Joint-Stock Company were 
cancelled in 2021, the goodwill decreased by RMB 144,161,929.71 this year. 
 
Note 2: The Group acquired Syscom MX in September 2021, resulting in  a goodwill of R MB 74,385,546.76, see Note 
(VI) 1.   
 
2) Goodwill impairment provision 
When the Group conducts impairment test on goodwill at the end of the reporting period, the key assumptions adopted 
and their basis are as follows: 
 
The recoverable amount of asset group containing apportioned goodwill is determined according to the present value of 
the estimated future cash flow of the relevant asset group. Its future cash flows are determined based on the 5-year financial 
budget from 2022 to 2026 approved by management, with a certain discount rate. Cash flow over 5 years is calculated on 
the basis of 0-2% growth rate. This growth rate is determined based on the relevant industry's growth forecast and does 
not exceed the long -term average growth rate for t hat industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on past 
performance and expectations of market development, and are based on the estimated sales, cost of sales, and operating 
expenses during the estimated period. 
 
During the reporting period, the Group did not find that the recoverable amount of the relevant asset group including the 
apportioned goodwill was lower than its book value, so it is considered that there is no need to accrue impairment loss for 
goodwill. 
 
20. Long-term Deferred Expenses 
Unit: RMB 
Invested unit Opening Balance Increased Amortized Difference of foreign 
currency translation  
Closing 
balance 
Improvement expenditure for 
leased fixed asset  108,584,686.85 49,373,074.47 57,732,233.15 (1,608,351.67) 98,617,176.50 
Employee housing loan 
deferred interest  - 68,159,986.92 8,769,988.52  - 59,389,998.40 
Total  108,584,686.85 117,533,061.39 66,502,221.67 (1,608,351.67) 158,007,174.90 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 320 
21. Deferred Tax Assets/Deferred Tax Liabilities 
1) Deferred tax assets that are not presented on net off basis 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Deductible temporary 
differences Deferred tax assets Deductible temporary 
differences Deferred tax assets 
Provision for impairment 
losses of assets 746,689,777.87  203,337,661.26  439,119,363.43 118,145,320.66 
Provision for credit loss 2,019,377,828.80  414,456,930.82  1,539,163,635.55 317,826,951.61 
Payroll payables 1,021,696,707.76  156,929,402.30  340,995,206.97 67,364,166.74 
Share-based payment  546,398,398.17 92,168,164.61 395,569,612.03 63,817,274.43 
Provisions 124,817,084.93  18,515,337.61  125,721,860.51 20,746,514.91 
Expenditure without invoice 224,525,193.17  49,859,840.33  343,485,705.59 79,499,747.08 
Unrealized profit from inter-
group transactions 2,025,608,612.07 303,841,291.79  1,332,036,632.93 203,654,079.47 
Changes in the fair value of 
derivative financial 
instruments 
3,795,920.86  948,980.22  4,862,446.50 1,215,611.63 
Deferred income 400,764,044.74  61,186,781.23  175,339,879.57 28,307,816.27 
Total 7,113,673,568.37 1,301,244,390.17 4,696,294,343.08 900,577,482.80 
 
 
2) Deferred tax liabilities that are not presented on net off basis 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Taxable temporary 
differences Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary 
differences Deferred tax liabilities 
Difference in depreciation 
of fixed assets 926,803,951.40 170,262,256.00 792,868,727.84 155,188,912.37 
Difference in amortization 
of intangible assets 2,769,106.64 415,366.00 2,077,910.40 311,686.57 
Changes in the fair value 
of derivative financial 
instruments 
29,037,242.51 7,259,310.63 18,487,400.00 4,621,850.00 
Changes in fair value of 
other non-current financial 
assets 
38,300,223.10 5,745,033.47 87,026,019.27 13,053,902.89 
Total 996,910,523.65 183,681,966.10 900,460,057.51 173,176,351.83 
 
3) Deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities that are presented at the net amount after offset  
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Offset amount at the end 
of the reporting period 
Deferred tax assets or 
liabilities at the net 
amount after offset 
Offset amount at the 
beginning of the 
reporting period 
Deferred tax assets or 
liabilities at the net 
amount after offset 
Deferred tax assets 90,366,814.93  1,210,877,575.24 80,196,527.94 820,380,954.86 
Deferred tax liabilities 90,366,814.93  93,315,151.17 80,196,527.94 92,979,823.89 
 
4) Details of unrecognized deferred tax assets 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Deductible temporary differences 687,848,166.51 788,077,425.69 
Deductible loss 2,841,919,737.84 2,881,025,358.37 
Total 3,529,767,904.35 3,669,102,784.06 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 321 
5) Deductible losses for unrecognized deferred tax assets will expire in the following years 
Unit: RMB 
Year Closing balance Opening balance 
2021 -  9,821,670.35  
2022 9,759,663.51  53,969,583.10  
2023 33,125,518.27  61,192,370.12  
2024 34,945,616.34  91,527,082.27  
2025 148,742,047.53  151,932,560.93  
2026 and beyond 2,615,346,892.19  2,512,582,091.60  
Total 2,841,919,737.84 2,881,025,358.37 
 
22. Other Non-current Assets     
                                           
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Carrying amount Provision Book value Carrying amount Provision Book value 
Contract assets 2,672,243,740.12 24,017,466.88 2,648,226,273.24 2,168,908,350.12 19,342,154.89 2,149,566,195.23 
Prepayments for 
acquisition of 
land 
278,398,706.94 -  278,398,706.94  79,046,571.00 -  79,046,571.00 
Prepayments for 
real estate 269,600,676.00 -  269,600,676.00  - -  - 
Prepayments for 
equipment 140,577,165.61 -  140,577,165.61  26,838,623.06 -  26,838,623.06 
Prepayments for 
infrastructure 4,679,432.89  - 4,679,432.89  15,233,481.00 -  15,233,481.00 
Others  9,044,156.95 - 9,044,156.95   - -  - 
Total 3,374,543,878.51 24,017,466.88 3,350,526,411.63 2,290,027,025.18  19,342,154.89 2,270,684,870.29 
 
23. Short-term Borrowings 
1) Categories of short-term borrowings 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Fiduciary loan 4,074,962,469.97 3,999,246,634.59 
Total  4,074,962,469.97 3,999,246,634.59 
 
2) As of December 31st 2021, the Group did not have any overdue short-term loans that were failed to repay. 
24. Held-for-trading Financial Liabilities 
Unit: RMB  
Item  Closing balance Opening balance 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value through 
current profits and losses 4,062,317.57  7,405,771.15  
Including: derivative financial liabilities 4,062,317.57  7,405,771.15  
total  4,062,317.57  7,405,771.15  
 
As of December 31st 2021, the notional amount of the Group's outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts was 
RMB 550,853,892.55 (December 31st 2020: RMB 498,858,533.76). The above forward foreign exchange contracts are 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 322 
not designated as hedging instruments, and the gains or losses arising from changes in their fair values are directly 
included in the current profit and loss. 
25. Notes Payable  
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Bank acceptance Bill 1,339,998,383.34 1,036,920,229.85  
Total  1,339,998,383.34 1,036,920,229.85  
 
As of December 31st 2021, the Group did not have any unpaid matured notes payable. 
26. Accounts Payable 
1) List of accounts payable 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Payments for goods 15,585,975,750.26 13,461,766,461.74 
Payables on equipment 303,719,230.86 132,118,328.45 
Total 15,889,694,981.12 13,593,884,790.19 
 
2) As of December 31st 2021, the Group did not have any significant accounts payable with aging above one year. 
 
27. Contract Liabilities 
1) List of contract liabilities 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Advanced receipts from sales of products  2,181,573,144.68 1,605,290,145.88 
Advanced receipts for construction settlement payment 185,782,167.92 401,866,195.59 
Advanced receipts from services 236,278,710.74 154,010,329.79 
Subtotal 2,603,634,023.34  2,161,166,671.26 
Less：Contract liabilities included in other non-current liabilities 
(Note (V), 38) 22,739,796.75 - 
Total  2,580,894,226.59 2,161,166,671.26 
 
2) Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis on the Above Contract Liabilities: 
Advanced receipts for product sales include prepayments for goods by customers and sales rebates provided to distributors. 
Product sales revenue of the Group is recognized when the control of such product is transferred to the customers. During 
the transaction, prepayments for goods by customers are recognized as a contract liability till the goods are shipped or 
delivered to the customers. Sales rebates to distributors of the Group may be accumulated when they purchase p roducts 
from the Group, and are deductible for payments for goods to be purchased in the future. Such sales rebates enable 
distributors to enjoy discounts in their future purchase of goods, which are not available to the same type of customers. 
Therefore, the commitment to offer such discounts to distributors on their future purchase prices is a separate performance 
obligation. Such commitment is recognized as a contract liability based on the transaction price allocated on the basis of 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 323 
the fair value of re bates when the sales transaction takes place, and is recognized as revenue when distributors use the 
sales rebates for deduction of purchase prices. 
 
The Group provides construction works and maintenance services based on the construction works and mainten ance 
service contracts with customers, and recognizes revenue based on the performance progress during the term of the 
contracts. The Group’s customers make milestone payments for the construction works and maintenance services of the 
Group as provided in the contracts. For the portion where the Group has obtained an unconditional right to the payment, 
it will be recognized as accounts receivable, while the remaining portion will be recognized as contract assets; where the 
contract price received or receiva ble by the Group exceeds the performance obligation completed to date, the excess 
portion will be recognized as contract liabilities. The Group presents contract assets and contract liabilities under the same 
contract on a net basis. 
 
The Group provides cloud services including storage service, video service, and telephone service to its customers. Such 
services are performance obligations to be satisfied during a period of time, and revenue is recognized based on the 
performance progress over the period in which such services are rendered. As customers have prepaid for cloud services 
at the time of purchase, at the time of transaction, the Group recognizes as a contract liability for the payments that would 
be received for cloud services, and recognizes revenue based on the performance progress over the period in which such 
services are rendered. 
 
3) As of January 1 st 2021, the book value of contract liabilities amount ed to RMB 2,161,166,671.26 has been 
recognized as revenue in 2021, including contract liabilities of RMB 1,605,290,145.88 a rising from advance 
receipt of product sales payment, the contract liabilities of RMB 401,866,195.59 arising from advance receipt 
of project settlement payment and contract liabilities of RMB 154,010,329.79 arising from the advance receipt 
of cloud service payment . As at  December 31 st 2021, the contract liabilities of RMB  2,580,894,226.59 are 
expected to be recognized as revenue in the coming year. 
28. Payroll Payable 
1) Details of payroll payable 
Unit: RMB  
Item Opening balance 
Increase in the 
current reporting 
period 
Decrease in the 
current reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
1.Short-term remuneration 2,858,597,482.49 13,698,139,075.95  12,035,934,098.52  4,520,802,459.92  
2. Termination benefits – defined 
contribution scheme 19,188,948.22 888,575,801.80  833,015,136.82  74,749,613.20  
Total 2,877,786,430.71 14,586,714,877.75  12,868,949,235.34  4,595,552,073.12  
 
2) List of Short-term remuneration 
Unit: RMB 
Item Opening balance Increase in the current 
reporting period 
Decrease in the current 
reporting period Closing balance 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 324 
1.Wages or salaries, 
bonuses, allowances and 
subsidies 
2,671,062,392.28  12,247,906,540.03  10,620,585,395.08  4,298,383,537.23  
2.Staff welfare 14,300.82  238,692,657.07  238,695,313.35  11,644.54  
3.Social insurance 
contributions 11,227,541.93  515,588,996.17  486,468,951.39  40,347,586.71  
Including: 
Medical insurance 10,852,343.07  494,018,231.61  466,368,463.01  38,502,111.67  
Injury insurance 330,255.63  15,101,602.15  14,065,793.64  1,366,064.14  
Maternity insurance 44,943.23  6,469,162.41  6,034,694.74  479,410.90  
4.Housing funds 146,194.01  557,598,474.59  557,744,668.60  - 
5.Labor union and 
education fund 176,147,053.45  138,352,408.09  132,439,770.10  182,059,691.44  
Subtotal 2,858,597,482.49  13,698,139,075.95  12,035,934,098.52  4,520,802,459.92  
 
3) Defined contribution plan  
  Unit: RMB 
Item Opening balance Increase in the 
current period 
Decrease in the 
current period Closing balance 
1.Basic pension insurance  18,665,404.09   859,688,761.68   805,812,222.99   72,541,942.78  
2.Unemployment insurance  523,544.13   28,887,040.12   27,202,913.83   2,207,670.42  
Subtotal  19,188,948.22   888,575,801.80   833,015,136.82   74,749,613.20  
 
Note: The Group participates in pension insurance and unemployment insurance plans established by government agencies 
in accordance with regulations. According to these plans, the Group pays monthly fees to these plans in proportion to the 
payment base. The Group has no other material obligation for the payment of pension benefits beyond the contributions 
described above, and corresponding expenses were booked into current profits and losses or corresponding assets. 
 
In 2021, the Group shall pay RMB 859,688,761.68 and RMB 28,887,040.12 to the pension insurance plan and 
unemployment insurance plan respectively (2020: RMB 448,873,230.48 and RMB 15,530,813.51). As of December 31st 
2021, the Group had fees payables of RMB 72,541,942.78 and RMB 2,207,670.42 (December 31 st 2020: RMB 
18,665,404.09 and RMB 523,544.13), which were due but not paid during the reporting period for pension and 
unemployment insurance plans. The relevant fees payables have been paid after the reporting period. 
  
29. Taxes Payable  
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Corporate income tax 927,703,038.55 1,403,744,369.98 
Value-added tax 426,720,008.08 294,728,811.39 
City construction and maintenance tax 21,622,541.71 17,924,699.09 
Education surcharges  9,380,789.66 7,547,297.38 
Local education surcharges  6,529,587.16 5,437,435.12 
Others  69,514,064.53 40,675,295.66 
Total 1,461,470,029.69 1,770,057,908.62 
30. Other Payables 
1) Categories 
    Unit: RMB 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 325 
Item Closing balance Opening balance  
Dividend payable 247,382,205.37 205,898,523.84 
Other payables  1,583,244,377.66 1,319,154,832.11 
Total  1,830,626,583.03   1,525,053,355.95 
 
2) Dividends payable  
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Dividends of incentive restricted shares 144,401,634.74 205,898,523.84 
Dividends of common stock 102,980,570.63 - 
Total 247,382,205.37 205,898,523.84 
 
3) Other payables  
 
(1) List of other payables according to the nature of the payment 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Unexpired commercial acceptance bills that were endorsed (Note 
(V) 3) 711,238,103.83 482,454,604.99 
Accrued expenses 144,958,993.62 337,678,697.37  
Guarantee and deposit fees 341,371,587.01  298,869,865.03 
Collection and payment on behalf 261,710,850.19 157,485,875.39 
Other expense payable 123,964,843.01 42,665,789.33 
Total 1,583,244,377.66 1,319,154,832.11 
 
(2) As of December 31st 2021, the Group did not have any significant other payables aging over one year. 
 
31. Non-current Liabilities Due within One Year 
Unit：RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Long-term borrowings due within one year (Note (V) 33) 347,587,089.91 3,486,243,087.91 
Lease liabilities due within one year (Note (V), 34) 248,027,043.35 156,420,687.89 
Long-term payables due within one year (Note (V) 35) 1,301,227.32 2,134,638.48 
Total 596,915,360.58 3,644,798,414.28 
 
32. Other Current Liabilities  
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Subscription payment of restricted shares 511,594,361.52 560,959,368.73 
Output V A T to be transferred 405,885,561.09 184,752,210.84 
Total 917,479,922.61 745,711,579.57 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 326 
33. Long-term Borrowings  
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Pledged loan (Note 1) 1,455,221,540.20 1,556,927,316.08 
Fiduciary loan (Note 2) 1,611,886,043.22 3,700,483,533.13 
Guaranteed loan (Note 3) 387,851,149.01 - 
Other borrowing (Note 4) 177,000,000.00 190,000,000.00 
Less：Long-term loans due within one year (Note (V) 31) 347,587,089.91  3,486,243,087.91 
Total 3,284,371,642.52 1,961,167,761.30 
 
Note 1: As of December 31st 2021, RMB 245,504,285.70 of the pledged loan was obtained by the Group with all the rights 
and benefits pledged under the Urumqi High-tech Zone (New Urban Area) Safe City & Surveillance system  for Social 
Comprehensive Management -- PPP Project Agreement; the maturity date is June 20 th 2028, among them, the annual 
interest rate of RMB 227,937,142.84 of the loan is 4.41% and the annual interest rate of RMB 17,567,142.86 of the loan 
is 4.31%. 
 
RMB 176,800,000.00 of the pledged loan was obtained by the Group with all the rights and benefits pledged under the 
MoYu Security Protection and Prevention Control System-- PPP Project Agreement; the maturity date is March 26th 2035, 
among them, the annual interest rate of RMB 138,200,000.00 of the loan is 4.445%, and the annual interest rate of RMB 
38,600,000.00 of the loan is 4.345%. 
 
RMB 215,780,000.00 of the pledged loan was obtained by the Group with all the rights and benefits pledged under the 
PiShan Security Protection and Prevention Control System-- PPP Project Agreement; the maturity date is March 26th 2040. 
Among them, the annual interest rate of RMB 164,800,000.00 of the loan is 4.445%, and the annual interest rate of RMB 
50,980,000.00 of the loan is 4.345%. 
 
RMB 221,600,000.00 of the pledged loan was obtained by the Group with all the rights and benefits pledged under the 
LuoPu Security Protection and Prevention Control System-- PPP Project Agreement; the maturity date is March 26th 2035, 
among them, the annual interest rate of RMB 134,400,000.00 of the loan is 4. 445%, the annual interest rate of RMB 
87,200,000.00 of the loan is 4.245%. 
 
RMB 95,600,000.00 of the pledged loan was obtained by the Group with all the rights and benefits pledged under the 
YuTian Safe City-- PPP Project Agreement; the maturity date is March 26th 2034, the annual interest rate is 4.245%. 
 
RMB 498,000,000.00 of the pledged loan was obtained by the Group with all the rights and benefits pledged under the 
Xi'an Public Security Video Surveillance Construction Network Application Construction --Public-Private Partnership 
(PPP) Project Agreement ; the maturity date is November 5 th 2031, among them, the annual interest rate of RMB 
295,000,000.00 of the loan is 4.445%, and the annual interest rate of RMB 203,000,000.00 of the loan is 4.345%. 
 
Note 2: As of December 31st 2021, the fiduciary loan with a book value of RMB 1,082,955,000.00 was 150 million euros 
in credit loans, which is mainly used for the Company to repay the investment and construction of the Hangzhou Innovation 
Industrial Park project and Xi'an Science and Technology Park project, the maturity date is November 29th 2024, and the 
interest rate is 0.80%. 
 
The fiduciary loans with a book value of R MB 200,000,000.00, which is mainly used for the Company to repay the 
investment and construction of the Hangzhou Innovation Industrial Park project and the Xi'an Science and Technology 
Park project. The maturity date is December 2nd 2026, and the annual interest rate is 3.00%. 
 
The fiduciary loans with a book value of  RMB 328,000,000.00, which is mainly used for the acquisition of the thermal 
imaging division asset group by Hangzhou Hik micro Sensing, a subsidiary of the Group, and the maturity dates are 
September 28th 2022 and September 27th 2023, respectively, and the annual interest rate is 3.20%. 
 
Note 3: At the end of the reporting period, the guaranteed loans with a book value of RMB 387,290,538.98 is the 
guaranteed loan of USD 61,035,256.00, which was mainly used for the acquisition of 51% of the shares of Syscom MX 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 327 
and Equipos Profesionales de C omunicacion. S.A. de C.V. (“Epcom MX”). The maturity date is August 30 th 2024, and 
the annual interest rate is 1.621%. 
 
Note 4: During 2016, the Group entered into an agreement with CDB Development Fund Ltd. (CDBDF) to jointly inject 
capital into Hikvision Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Hangzhou Electronics"), a subsidiary of the Group. Pursuant to the capital 
injection agreement, CDBDF would not participate in senior management personnel such as directors, and it would either 
take part in decision -making or make significant influence on Hangzhou Electronics. The Group shall pay a 1.2% 
annualized return to CDBDF through dividends or interest payments, and the Group is required to redeem the CDBDF's 
equity investment in the current reporting period by installments e ach year from 2021 to 2024. Therefore, the capital 
injection by CDBDF is treated as a long-term loan. The Group paid RMB 13 million to redeem the 2% equity of Hangzhou 
Electronics Company held by CDBDF during the reporting period. As of December 31st 2021, the balance of the loan is 
177 million (December 31st 2020: RMB 190 million). 
34. Lease Liabilities 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance(restated) 
Lease liabilities  565,978,922.56 386,475,961.59  
Less ：Lease liabilities due within one year (Note (V), 31) 248,027,043.35 156,420,687.89 
Total  317,951,879.21 230,055,273.70 
 
35. Long-term Payables  
 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Purchase goods in installments 10,310,558.82 10,677,104.56 
Borrowing - 8,000,000.00 
Less: Long-term payables due within one year (Note 
(V), 31) 1,301,227.32 2,134,638.48 
Total 9,009,331.50 16,542,466.08 
 
36. Provisions 
 Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance  
Product quality warranty 200,675,950.96 151,443,871.02 
Total 200,675,950.96 151,443,871.02 
 
37. Deferred Income 
Unit: RMB  
Item Opening balance Increase in current 
reporting period 
Decrease in current 
reporting period Closing balance Details 
Government Subsidies 190,878,987.69 652,192,764.28 104,485,293.92 738,586,458.05 Note  
Total  190,878,987.69 652,192,764.28 104,485,293.92 738,586,458.05  
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 328 
As of December 31st 2021, the deferred income related to government subsidies: 
Unit: RMB  
Liability Items Opening Balance Increase in current 
reporting period 
Amounts booked into 
other income during 
the current reporting 
period 
Other 
changes Closing Balance 
Related to 
assets/related to 
incomes 
Chongqing 
Manufacturing 
Base construction 
76,835,135.44 - 36,117,454.10 - 40,717,681.34 Related to assets 
Other special 
subsidies 93,995,937.25 483,985,764.28 38,851,173.16 - 539,130,528.37  Related to assets 
Other special 
subsidies 20,047,915.00  168,207,000.00 29,516,666.66 - 158,738,248.34 Related to incomes 
Subtotal 190,878,987.69 652,192,764.28 104,485,293.92 -  738,586,458.05   
 
Note: Refer to government subsidies receiv ed by the Group for projects such as Chongqing Manufactur ing Base 
construction and other special projects; Actual expenses occurred in the current reporting period for other special subsidies 
related to incomes were reco gnized in other income; and relevant assets for Chongqing Manufacture Park construction 
and other special subsidies related to assets were amortized averagely in other income within the assets’ useful lives. 
38. Other Non-current Liabilities 
  Unit: RMB  
Item  Closing balance Opening balance 
Subscription for restricted stocks 511,594,361.52 560,959,368.74 
Contract liabilities 22,739,796.75 - 
Total  534,334,158.27 560,959,368.74 
 
39. Share Capital                                                          
Unit: RMB  
  Opening balance 
Changes for the current reporting period 
Closing balance New issue of 
shares  Bonus issue  Transfer from 
Capital Reserve  Others (Note) Subtotal 
2021 
Total 
shares 9,343,417,190.00 - - -- (7,611,076.00) (7,611,076.00)  9,335,806,114.00   
2020 
Total 
shares 9,345,010,696.00 - - - (1,593,506.00) (1,593,506.00) 9,343,417,190.00 
 
Note: On December 25th 2020, in accordance with the authorization of the Company’s 2018 second extraordinary general 
meeting and the resolutions of the 20th meeting of the fourth Board of Directors and the revised articles of association, the 
Company repurchased and cancelled the granted 7,611,076 restricted RMB treasury shares that have not been unlocked, 
reducing the share capital by RMB 7,611,076 and the capital reserve by RMB 115,032,981.28. The Company  had 
completed the repurchase cancellation registration on July 2nd 2021. 
 
On December 24 th 2019, according to the  authorization of the Company 's second extraordinary general meeting of 
shareholders in 2016, the resolution of the 14th meeting of the 4th session of the Board of Directors and the revised articles 
of association, the Company repurchased and cancelled 1,593,506 restricted treasury shar es that are granted but not yet 
unlocked. The share capital was reduced by RMB 1,593,506.00, and the capital reserve was reduced by RMB 
11,823,911.35. The Company went through the repurchase cancellation registration on December 17th 2020. 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 329 
40. Capital Reserves   
   Unit: RMB  
Item  Opening balance 
Increase in the current 
reporting period 
 (Note 1) 
Decrease in the current 
reporting period  
(Note 2) 
Closing balance 
2021 
Share premium  4,747,808,907.38 175,364,843.03 122,433,910.47 4,800,739,839.94 
Other capital 
reserves 430,968,554.71 347,727,048.45 175,364,843.03 603,330,760.13 
Total 5,178,777,462.09 523,091,891.48 297,798,753.50 5,404,070,600.07 
2020 
Share premium  3,834,418,853.06 985,668,869.46 72,278,815.14 4,747,808,907.38 
Other capital 
reserves 292,524,845.90 782,471,622.99 644,027,914.18  430,968,554.71 
Total 4,126,943,698.96  1,768,140,492.45 716,306,729.32 5,178,777,462.09 
 
Note 1: The increase of RMB 175,364,843.03 in the share premium in the current fiscal year  was due to the exercise of 
equity-settled share-based payments, and other capital reserves were transferred to the share premium. 
 
The increase of RMB 347,727,048.45 in other capital reserves in the current fiscal year was calculated with equity-settled 
share-based payments which were included in the capital reserve. Please refer to Note (XI) for details. 
 
The increase of RMB 644,027,914.18 in share premium during the prior year was due to the exercise of equity -settled 
share-based payments, and other capital reserves were transferred to share premium; The increase of RMB 341,640,955.28 
was due to the business integration of the thermal imaging business and intelligent fire protection and control of the Group 
through transferring the asset groups of the thermal  imaging business department to the holding subsidiary Hangzhou 
Hikmicro Sensing by the Company, and transferring the asset groups of the intelligent fire protection and control business 
department, 100% equity interests in Wuhan Hiksafety Technology Co., Ltd. and Zhejiang Hiksafety Technology Co., Ltd. 
to its holding subsidiary Hangzhou Hikfire Technology by the Company, the difference between the collected transfer 
consideration and the transferred net assets is formed, the shareholding ratio in the two companies was changed from direct 
holding of 100% to indirect holding of 60%. 
 
The increase of RMB 782,471,622.99 in other capital reserves during the prior year was due to equity-settled share-based 
payments which were included in the capital reserve. 
 
Note 2: The decrease of RMB 115,032,981.28 in share premium during the current reporting period was due to the 
Company’s repurchase of 7,611,076 granted but unlocked RMB treasury shares by cash, please refer to Note (V) 39; The 
decrease of RMB 7,400,929.19 in share premium during the current reporting period was due to share distributions by 
equity settlements to minority shareholders. 
 
Among the decrease in share premium during the prior year, a decrease of RMB 11,823,911.35 was due to the Company’s 
repurchase of 1,593,506 granted but unlocked RMB treasury shares by cash ; a decrease of RMB 29,967,599.60 was due 
to share distributions by equity settlements to minority shareholders; a decrease of RMB 30,487,304.19 was due to the 
difference between the payment of the consideration and the share of identifiable net assets calculated based on the newly 
increased shareholding ratio as a result of acquisition of 42.86% minority interest in each of the holding subsidiaries 
Hua’An Baoquan Intelligence and Hua’An Bao Quan Electronics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 330 
41. Treasury Shares  
Unit: RMB  
Item Opening Balance Increase in the  current 
reporting period  
Decrease in the  current 
reporting period (Note 1) Closing balance 
2021 
Restricted shares 
incentive scheme 1,121,918,737.47 - 98,730,014.43 1,023,188,723.04 
Total 1,121,918,737.47 - 98,730,014.43 1,023,188,723.04 
2020 
Restricted shares 
incentive scheme 2,148,273,864.36  - 1,026,355,126.89 1,121,918,737.47 
Total 2,148,273,864.36  - 1,026,355,126.89 1,121,918,737.47 
 
Note 1: During the current reporting period, the decreased amount of RMB 98,730,014.43 in treasury shares was due to 
the provision of cash dividend allocated to restricted shares and the repurchase and cancellation of 7,611,076 restricted 
shares of 2016 and 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme. 
 
During the prior year, the decreased amount of RMB 1,026,355,126.89 in treasury shares was due to the provision of cash 
dividend allocated to restricted shares, the repurchase and cancellation of 1,593,506 restricted shares of the Company’s 
2016 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme, the unlocking of 21,204,645 shares for the expiry of the 3rd unlocking period of 
the Company’s 2016 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme , the unlocking of 45,591,794 shares for the expiry of the 1 st 
unlocking period of the Company’s 2018 Restricted Share Incentive Scheme. 
 
 
.   
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 331 
42. Other Comprehensive Income 
  Unit: RMB  
Item Opening 
balance 
Amounts occurred in the current reporting period 
Closing balance 
The before-
income-tax 
amount 
incurred 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Less: 
transfer to 
current 
period P/L 
from 
previous 
other 
comprehens
ive income 
Less: 
income 
tax 
expense 
Attributable to 
the parent 
company (after 
tax) 
Attributable to 
minority 
shareholders 
(after tax) 
2021 
Other incomes 
that may be 
reclassified 
subsequently to 
profit or loss 
(84,993,926.94) 4,631,122.68 - - 7,809,801.65  (3,178,678.97) (77,184,125.29)  
Included: Effect 
on conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated in 
foreign 
currencies 
(84,993,926.94)  4,631,122.68 - - 7,809,801.65 (3,178,678.97) (77,184,125.29) 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
(84,993,926.94)  4,631,122.68 - - 7,809,801.65 (3,178,678.97) (77,184,125.29) 
2020 
Other incomes 
that may be 
reclassified 
subsequently to 
profit or loss 
(53,541,146.99) (34,145,243.17) - - (31,452,779.95) (2,692,463.22) (84,993,926.94)  
Included: Effect 
on conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated in 
foreign currencies 
(53,541,146.99) (34,145,243.17) - - (31,452,779.95) (2,692,463.22) (84,993,926.94)  
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
(53,541,146.99) (34,145,243.17) - - (31,452,779.95) (2,692,463.22) (84,993,926.94)  
 
43. Surplus Reserves  
Unit: RMB  
Item  Opening balance 
Increase in the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Decrease in the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
2021 and 2020 
Statutory surplus reserves (Note) 4,672,505,348.00 - - 4,672,505,348.00 
Total 4,672,505,348.00 - - 4,672,505,348.00 
 
Note: According to the Company Law of the People's Republic of China and the Articles of Association of the Company, 
The Company shall withdraw the statutory surplus reserve fund at 10% of the annual net profit, and when the accumulated 
amount of the statutory surplus reserve fund reaches more than 50% of the registered capital, it may not be withdrew. The 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 332 
Company has withdrawn a statutory surplus reserve of RMB 4,672,505,348.00, which has reached 50% of the Company's 
share capital, so no subsequent statutory surplus reserve will be accrued in the current fiscal year. 
 
The statutory surplus reserve can be used to make up for losses or increase the share capital after approval. 
44. Retained Earnings  
Unit: RMB  
Item  2021 2020 
Retained Earnings at the close of the prior reporting period  35,806,523,826.37 28,961,389,145.22 
Add: Net profit attributable to the parent company for the 
current reporting period 16,800,411,032.05 13,385,526,714.15 
Less: Dividends payable on common shares (Note) 7,458,057,406.90 6,540,392,033.00 
Retained earnings at the end of the current reporting 
period 45,148,877,451.52 35,806,523,826.37 
 
Note：According to the resolution of 2020 Annual General Meeting dated on May 14th 2021, based upon the total capital 
share of the Company on the equity distribution date, for each 10 ordinary shares, the Company distributed cash dividends 
of RMB 8 (tax inclusive), the rest of retained earnings were all carried forward for future distributions. 
 
45. Operating Income/Operating Cost 
45.1 Operating income and operating cost 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2021 2020 
Revenue Cost Revenue Cost 
Operating income 80,803,165,490.40 44,894,713,863.87 62,879,112,889.36 33,607,174,664.31 
Other operating income 616,888,048.87 434,686,468.78 624,338,002.42 350,523,193.42 
Total  81,420,053,539.27 45,329,400,332.65 63,503,450,891.78 33,957,697,857.73 
 
45.2 Operating business (by business type) 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2021 
Revenue Cost 
Product sales 75,532,012,528.94 41,361,920,302.85 
Construction contract 4,003,746,727.88 3,084,364,818.86 
Provide services  1,267,406,233.58 448,428,742.16 
Total  80,803,165,490.40 44,894,713,863.87 
 
45.3 Operating business (by the time of revenue recognition) 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2021 
Revenue Cost 
Satisfied at a point in time 75,532,012,528.94 41,361,920,302.85 
Satisfied over time 5,271,152,961.46 3,532,793,561.02 
Total 80,803,165,490.40 44,894,713,863.87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 333 
45.4 Operating business (By product or business type) 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2021 
Revenue Cost 
Products and services for main business 64,528,795,025.87 34,509,451,081.26 
Constructions  4,003,746,727.88 3,084,364,818.86 
Innovative businesses 12,270,623,736.65 7,300,897,963.75 
Total  80,803,165,490.40 44,894,713,863.87  
 
Note: The main business is other parts other than innovative businesses. 
 
Descriptions of Performance obligations: 
 
The Group sells video surveillance and other main business products, smart home products, robotic products , thermal 
imaging produ cts, au to electronics products, storage products and other innovative businesses ‘products and related 
services. For sales of goods to customers, the Group recognizes revenue when the control of the goods is transferred, i.e. 
when the goods are delivered to the location designated by other party, or delivered to the carrier designated by other party, 
or delivered to the other party for acceptance. Since the delivery of the goods to the customer represents the right to 
unconditionally receive the contract consideration, and the maturity of the payment only depends on the passage of time, 
the Group recognizes a receivable when the goods are delivered to the customer. When the customer prepays for the goods, 
the Group recognizes the transaction amount received as a contract liability, and recognizes revenue until the goods are 
delivered to the customer. 
 
For projects constructed for customers, since the customers could control the assets under construction during the 
performance of the Group, the Group recognizes revenue according to the performance progress by treating them as the 
obligations within certain period , except that the performance progress cannot be reasonably determined. The Group 
applies the output method to determine the performance progress, which is based on the value to the customer s of the 
goods or services that have been transferred to them. Where the performance progress cannot be reasonably determined, 
and the costs incurred by the Group are expected to be compensated, the revenue shall be recognized according to the 
amount of the costs already incurred until the performance progress can be reasonably determined. The customers of the 
Group pay the Group for the construction works by milestone payments in accordance with the contract. For the portion 
where the Group has obtained an unconditional right to the payment, it will be recognized as accounts receivable, w hile 
the remaining portion will be recognized as contract assets; where the contract price received or receivable by the Group 
exceeds the performance obligation completed to date, the excess portion will be recognized as contract liabilities. The 
Group presents contract assets and contract liabilities under the same contract on a net basis. 
 
The Group provides customers with operation and maintenance services. Since customers obtain and consume the 
economic benefits generated by the performance of the Group at the same time when the Group performs its obligations, 
the Group recognizes revenue according to the performance progress by treating them as the obligations within certain 
period. The customers of the Group pay the Group for the maintenance services by milestone payments in accordance with 
the contract. For the portion where the Group has obtained an unconditional right to the payment, it will be recognized as 
accounts receivable, while the remaining portion will be recognized as contract assets; where the contract price received 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 334 
or receivable by the Group exceeds the performance obligation completed to date, the excess portion will be recognized 
as contract liabilities. The Group presents contract assets and contract liabilities under the same contract on a net basis. 
 
According to the project contract, the Group provides both project asset construction services and post -construction 
operation services and maintenance services. The Group identifies construction services, operation services and 
maintenance services as individual performance obligations, and allocates the transaction price to each performance 
obligation based on the relative proportion of the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation. 
 
The Group provides cloud services including storage service, video service, and telephone service to its customers. Such 
services are performance obligations to be satisfied during a period of time, and revenue is recognized based on the 
performance progress over the period in which such services are rendered. As customers have prepaid for cloud services 
at the time of purchase, the Group recognizes the payments for cloud services received at the time of transaction as a 
contract liability, and recognizes revenue based on the performanc e progress over the period in which such services are 
rendered. 
 
Sales rebates to distributors of the Group may be accumulated when they purchase products from the Group, and are 
deductible for payments for goods to be purchased in the future. Such sales rebates enable distributors to enjoy discounts 
in their future purchase of goods, which are not available to the same type of customers. Therefore, the commitment to 
offer such discounts to distributors on their future purchase prices is a separate performance obligation. Such commitment 
is recognized as a contract liability based on the transaction price allocated on the basis of the fair value of rebates when  
the sales transaction takes place, and is recognized as revenue when distributors use the sales re bates for deduction of 
purchase prices. 
 
The Group provides quality assurance for the sold video surveillance products, smart home products, robotic products and 
other products and related accessories, as well as the assets constructed. The quality assurance related to the products sold 
by the Group cannot be purchased separately, and is a guarantee to customers that the products sold meet the established 
standards, therefore, the Group conducts accounting treatment in accordance with the Accounting Standards for Business 
Enterprises No. 13 - Contingencies, please refer to Note (III) 24 and Note (V) 36 for details. 
 
Descriptions of allocation to the remaining performance obligations: 
As of December 31st 2021, all the remaining performance obligations are part of the contracts with original expected 
contract term not exceeding one year. The Group expects to recognize all of them as revenue within the next year. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 335 
46. Business Taxes and Surcharges 
Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
City construction and maintenance tax 271,005,144.60 189,386,771.55 
Education surcharges 118,219,501.03 82,442,008.19 
Local education surcharges 78,812,578.90 54,915,581.40 
Stamp duty 48,719,842.95 30,560,972.35 
Real estate tax 38,218,345.28 20,330,766.80 
Tax on use of land  5,747,583.10 3,992,258.37 
Vehicle and vessel tax 156,562.97 151,291.55 
Others  100,448.69 34,483,699.34 
Total  560,980,007.52 416,263,349.55 
 
 
47. Selling Expenses 
Unit: RMB 
 
Items 2021 2020 
Payroll 5,548,436,481.61 4,322,277,210.83 
Marketing Expenses 1,351,499,107.82 1,156,331,130.68 
Shipping, transportation, and vehicle expense 300,539,153.45 711,448,510.07 
Travelling expenses  272,916,031.74 216,729,012.52 
Office expenses 206,708,742.81 201,748,056.17 
Business hospitality expenses 251,571,190.72 183,005,835.09 
Rental expenses 66,296,932.66 193,697,802.86 
Professional Intermediary expenses 192,080,083.00 158,620,553.03 
Depreciation and amortization expenses 208,955,480.02 89,216,922.78 
Others 187,440,464.19  144,715,710.55 
Total 8,586,443,668.02 7,377,790,744.58 
48. Administrative Expenses 
Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
Payroll 1,320,787,327.54 1,155,570,756.22 
Office expenses 228,196,179.10 180,626,249.71 
Depreciation and amortization expenses  194,491,716.47 164,558,720.85 
Professional Intermediary expenses 95,361,861.47 74,792,204.76 
Travelling expenses 39,132,306.65 37,760,312.22 
Shipping, transportation, utility expense 48,723,035.15 41,419,386.33 
Rental expenses 10,375,238.03 6,827,268.39 
Business hospitality expenses 11,296,053.97 9,193,300.21 
Others  183,886,745.58 119,264,890.07 
Total 2,132,250,463.96 1,790,013,088.76 
49. R&D Expenses 
 Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
Payroll  6,809,382,000.63  5,154,824,934.62 
Consumables and service fees  556,631,898.14  533,761,090.55 
Depreciation and amortization expenses 299,364,107.17  218,167,957.47 
Office expenses 167,582,498.45 190,693,619.45 
Intermediate testing fees 144,910,134.48  145,698,114.33 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 336 
Travelling expenses 108,265,517.40   68,264,094.55 
New product design fees 106,964,625.53 20,416,472.49 
Rental expenses 5,329,594.73 10,791,884.40 
Others  53,214,724.86  36,033,594.56 
Total  8,251,645,101.39  6,378,651,762.42 
50. Financial Expenses 
Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
Interest expenses 231,787,858.92 223,386,660.79 
Interest expense on lease liabilities 17,607,723.12 - 
Less：Interest income 885,545,988.62  722,845,909.92 
Foreign exchange losses 354,146,744.37 927,956,362.97 
Less﹕Capitalized specific loan interests and foreign 
exchange differences on specific loan  (124,649,345.63) 58,884,747.25 
Others 24,011,058.74 26,642,405.97 
Total (133,343,257.84) 396,254,772.56 
 
51. Other Income  
 Unit: RMB  
Items 2021 2020 
V A T Rebates  2,054,594,872.37 1,739,193,206.86 
Special subsidies 558,717,940.38  530,334,411.76 
Tax reduction 14,829,396.58 32,596,557.71 
Value-added tax deduction 418,611.13 1,457,529.48 
Total  2,628,560,820.46  2,303,581,705.81 
 
52. Investment Income   
Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
Long-term equity investment gains based on equity method 114,137,281.18 6,361,388.74 
Investment income from other non-current financial assets during 
the holding period 115,644,801.97 150,000,000.00 
Investment income from disposal of held-for-trading financial assets 113,608,106.10 12,915,660.21 
Investment losses from disposal of subsidiaries and other business 
units (169,184,641.43) - 
Total 174,205,547.82 169,277,048.95 
 
53. Gains(Losses) from Changes in Fair Values 
Unit: RMB 
Sources of gains (losses) from changes in fair values 2021 2020 
Held-for-trading financial assets 11,711,591.07 22,814,664.19 
Including: gains on the changes in fair value of derivative financial 
instruments 11,711,591.07 22,814,664.19 
Gains(Losses) from changes in fair value of other non-current financial assets (53,214,895.05) 69,478,784.83 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 337 
Held-for-trading financial liabilities 3,303,279.51 (6,835,239.48) 
Including: gains (losses) on the changes in fair value of derivative 
financial instruments 3,303,279.51 (6,835,239.48) 
Total (38,200,024.47) 85,458,209.54 
 
54. Credit Impairment Loss 
Unit: RMB  
Items 2021 2020 
Credit impairment losses of accounts receivable  (566,389,266.23) (106,051,544.54) 
Credit impairment reverses (losses) of other receivables 25,231,443.14 (27,043,173.31) 
Credit impairment losses of long-term receivables (28,600,342.41) (52,845,607.89) 
Total (569,758,165.50) (185,940,325.74) 
 
55. Impairment Losses of Assets 
 Unit: RMB  
Items  2021 2020 
Losses on inventory devaluation  (434,614,231.94) (361,227,476.20) 
Contract assets impairment loss  (13,075,174.66) (1,882,037.79) 
Total  (447,689,406.60) (363,109,513.99) 
 
56. Non-operating Income 
Unit: RMB  
Items 2021 2020 
The amount booked into current 
period non-recurring profits and 
looses 
Fines and confiscations 59,586,645.03 66,127,109.32 59,586,645.03 
Government subsidies 2,653,472.98 8,472,687.83 2,653,472.98 
Income from business combination of 
enterprises not under the same control 
(Note) 
 1,163,932.96 281,193.50  1,163,932.96 
Others  12,340,318.32  24,392,312.85 12,340,318.32  
Total  75,744,369.29 99,273,303.50 75,744,369.29 
 
Government subsidies included in current profit and loss: 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2021 2020 Related to assets/Related to incomes 
Tax reduction  341,525.58 138,798.93 Related to incomes 
Other subsidies 2,311,947.40 8,333,888.90 Related to incomes 
Total 2,653,472.98 8,472,687.83  
 
Note: On September 23 rd 2021, the Group acquired Epcom MX. The fair value of the identifiable net assets 
obtained in the acquisition less than the combination cost is included in the current profit and loss, which is 
equivalent to RMB 1,163,932.96. See Note (VI) 1 for details.  
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 338 
57. Non-operating Expenses 
Unit: RMB  
Items 2021 2020 The amount booked into current period 
non-recurring profits and looses 
Losses on disposal of non-current 
assets 8,156,134.63 6,465,180.38 8,156,134.63 
Local water conservancy construction 
fund 1,347,569.92 1,672,431.96 1,347,569.92 
Donation expenses 51,489,848.19 1,887,772.40 51,489,848.19 
Others  20,560,553.01 12,951,586.67 20,560,553.01 
Total  81,554,105.75 22,976,971.41 81,554,105.75 
 
58. Income Tax Expenses 
58.1 Details of Income tax expenses 
Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
Income tax for the current reporting period 1,912,421,635.04 2,140,449,306.26  
Deferred income tax expenses (385,068,762.95) (89,684,430.19) 
Differences in filing and payment of income tax in previous 
reporting years (569,862,219.93) (456,113,070.38) 
Total  957,490,652.16 1,594,651,805.69 
 
58.2 Reconciliation of income tax expenses to the accounting profit 
Unit: RMB  
 Item 2021 2020 
Total profit 18,468,211,862.63 15,272,971,277.86 
Income tax expenses calculated at applicable tax rates of 15%  2,770,231,779.39 2,290,945,691.68 
Impact of non-deductible costs, expenses and losses 13,462,549.85 30,860,096.48 
Tax effect of non-taxable income (20,994,120.30) (3,054,060.62) 
Impact of deductible temporary differences or deductible losses 
for which no deferred income tax assets is recognized for the 
current period 
126,889,022.94 160,270,373.80 
Impact of using deductible temporary differences or deductible 
losses for which no deferred income tax assets was recognized for 
the prior periods 
(124,304,097.81) (27,124,409.54) 
Differences of income tax annual filing (Note) (569,862,219.93) (456,113,070.38) 
Impact by different tax rates applicable to different subsidiaries 117,262,283.11 65,427,121.90 
Impact of additional deduction of R&D expenses (853,993,809.22) (498,716,838.03) 
Others (501,200,735.87) 32,156,900.40 
Income tax expenses 957,490,652.16 1,594,651,805.69 
 
Note: Pursuant to the Notice on Printing the List of Key Software Enterprises and Integrated Circuit Design Enterprises 
under the National Planning Layout between 2013 and 2014 (Fa Gai Gao Ji [2013] No. 2458) , the Company was identified 
as a national key software enterprise in December 2013. Pursuant to the Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning the 
Preferential Policies for Enterprise Income Tax on Software and Integrated Circuit Industry (Finance and Taxation [2016] 
No. 49), the Company was approved by the tax authorities in May 2021 to apply enterprise income tax of 10% for 2020, 
therefore, the enterprise’s 2020 income tax expenses was reduced by RMB 569, 111,492.62 (2020: RMB 456,113,070.38).  
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 339 
59. Notes to Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Items  
59.1 Other cash receipts relating to operating activities 
Unit: RMB 
Items 2021 2020 
Interest income 747,643,940.57 639,105,287.46 
Government subsidies 1,108,737,358.14 503,207,004.05 
Withdrawal of restricted currency funds 870,118,675.99 183,586,082.31 
Others  71,926,963.35  101,691,979.83 
Total 2,798,426,938.05 1,427,590,353.65 
 
59.2 Other cash payments relating to operating activities 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2021 2020 
Advertising and Selling services 1,209,668,231.40 1,106,345,645.08 
Office expenses and business expenses 1,244,593,584.01 997,386,647.41 
Shipping and transportation expense 380,408,948.15 778,093,845.68 
R&D expense 702,435,895.72 561,674,056.35 
Travelling expense 420,313,855.79 322,753,419.29 
Outsourcing service fees, fees for hiring intermediaries, etc. 406,476,311.46 301,671,589.85 
Rental expense 82,001,765.42 211,316,955.65 
Deposits to restricted monetary funds 553,153,948.19 62,196,400.89 
Others 298,285,736.64 34,657,044.75 
Total  5,297,338,276.78 4,376,095,604.95 
 
59.3 Other cash receipts relating to investing activities 
 Unit: RMB  
Item 2021 2020 
Receipts of financing lease payments - 46,196,873.80 
Total  - 46,196,873.80 
 
59.4 Other cash payments related to investing activities 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2021 2020 
Cash payments for investment intention funds 4,000,000.00 1,000,000.00 
Net cash payment for disposal of subsidiaries and other 
business units 6,196,658.79 - 
Total 10,196,658.79 1,000,000.00 
 
59.5 Other cash payments relating to financing activities 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2021 2020 
The consideration paid for the acquisition of minority 
shareholders' equity - 64,290,000.00 
Repurchase of restricted shares 122,644,057.28 13,417,417.35 
Repayment of lease liabilities 190,296,810.23 - 
Total 312,940,867.51 77,707,417.35 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 340 
60. Supplementary Information about Cash Flow Statement 
60.1 Supplementary information about cash flow statement 
Unit: RMB  
Supplementary information 2021 2020 
1. Reconciliation of net profit to cash flows from 
operating activities:   
Net profit 17,510,721,210.47 13,678,319,472.17 
Add: Impairment of assets 447,689,406.60 363,109,513.99 
     Provision for credit losses 569,758,165.50 185,940,325.74 
 Fixed assets depreciation 685,029,204.28 713,633,074.93 
 Amortization of intangible assets 140,708,108.57 87,014,571.01 
       Long-term deferred expenses amortization 66,502,221.67 44,742,828.97 
 Right-of-use assets depreciation 198,362,376.40 - 
Gains on disposal of fixed assets, intangible 
assets and other long-term assets (34,225,603.81) (628,505.02) 
Fixed asset scrapping losses 8,156,134.63 6,465,180.38 
Losses (gains) from changes in fair value  38,200,024.47 (85,458,209.54) 
 Financial expenses  302,351,912.74 598,966,581.29 
 Investment income (174,205,547.82) (169,277,048.95) 
 Share-based payment based on equity 
settlement 369,329,250.11 818,106,623.19 
       Decrease of restricted funds 316,964,727.80 121,389,681.42 
       Increase in deferred income tax assets (390,473,424.46) (131,576,150.12) 
Increase in deferred income tax liabilities 335,327.28 41,891,719.93 
 Increase in inventories  (5,936,053,632.80)  (496,228,965.62)  
Decrease (increase) of operating other non-
current assets (497,739,824.36) 151,065,258.42 
 Increase in operating receivables  (5,478,863,810.65) (2,794,429,636.26) 
 Increase in operating payables  4,019,434,922.97   3,098,102,287.85 
 Increase (decrease) in deferred income  547,707,470.36 (142,710,843.61) 
Others (1,163,932.96)  (281,193.50) 
   Net cash flows from operating activities 12,708,524,686.99 16,088,156,566.67 
2. Significant investing and financing activities not 
involving cash receipts and payments:   
3. Net changes in cash and cash equivalents:   
Closing balance of cash  34,603,944,429.20 35,024,837,878.31 
Less: Opening balance of cash 35,024,837,878.31 26,515,668,008.40 
Add: Closing balance of cash equivalents - - 
    Less: Opening balance of cash equivalents - - 
  Net Increase (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents (420,893,449.11) 8,509,169,869.91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 341 
60.2 Net cash paid for obtaining subsidiaries and other business units during the current year 
Unit: RMB 
 Amounts 
Cash or cash equivalents paid for the business combination in this year 395,838,055.75 
Including: Daishan Hailai - 
        Syscom MX 378,698,267.92 
        Epcom MX 17,139,787.83 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company on the acquisition date 72,233,525.01 
Including: Daishan Hailai 44,354,803.41 
        Syscom MX 26,037,489.00 
        Epcom MX 1,841,232.60 
Net cash paid for obtaining the subsidiary 323,604,530.74 
 
60.3 Constituents of cash and cash equivalents 
 Unit: RMB  
Item  Closing balance Opening balance 
Cash 34,603,944,429.20 35,024,837,878.31  
  Including: Cash on hand 1,851,273.53 1,105,047.51 
           Bank deposit for payment at any time 34,573,786,777.26 34,968,013,389.43 
           Other monetary capital for payment at any time 28,306,378.41 55,719,441.37 
Cash equivalents - - 
Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 34,603,944,429.20 35,024,837,878.31  
 
Among the total balance of RMB 146,232,880.57 of the other monetary fund(s) at the end of the reporting period 
(December 31st 2020: RMB 490,610,671.33), RMB 117,926,502.16 are various guarantee deposits and other restricted 
funds, etc. (December 31st 2020: RMB 434,891,229.96), not cash and cash equivalents. 
 
61. Assets with Restriction in Ownership or Use Rights 
   Unit: RMB 
Item Book value at the end of the current 
reporting period Cause of restriction 
Cash and bank balances 117,926,502.16 Various guarantee deposits and other restricted funds 
Notes receivable 711,238,103.83 Endorsed to suppliers  
Receivables for financing 4,337,929.69 Pledged for issuing bank acceptance bills 
Accounts receivable 197,358,387.51 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Contract assets   104,842,914.69 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Intangible assets 62,497,900.00 Pledged for long-term borrowings  
Other non-current assets  1,667,721,944.32 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Right-of-use assets 23,923,145.37 Fixed assets leased through financial lease 
Total  2,889,846,827.57  
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 342 
62. Monetary Items of Foreign Currencies 
62.1 Foreign currencies 
             Unit: RMB  
Items Balance in foreign currency at 
the end of the reporting period 
Exchange rate for 
conversion 
Balance of RMB converted at 
the end of the reporting period 
Cash and bank balances    
  Including: USD 266,706,479.65 6.3757 1,700,440,502.30 
     EUR 85,252,747.73 7.2197 615,499,262.76 
GBP  9,516,440.69  8.6064   81,902,295.18  
RUB  317,813,616.47  0.0855   27,163,529.80  
HKD  31,242,355.45  0.8176   25,543,749.82  
JPY 345,648,715.88  0.0554  19,148,938.86  
PLN  11,277,337.50  1.5717   17,724,929.67  
KRW  2,491,866,911.68  0.0054   13,356,905.02  
AED  4,973,251.64  1.7361   8,634,062.17  
AUD  709,775.17  4.6220   3,280,580.85  
SGD   1,628,647.85  4.7179   7,683,797.69  
NZD  421,332.56  4.3553   1,835,029.69  
ZAR  8,460.22  0.4004   3,387.05  
TRY  359.24  0.4822   173.24  
INR  1,699.58  0.0857   145.62  
    
Accounts receivable    
  Including: EUR  262,479,326.37  7.2197   1,895,021,992.59  
     USD  95,689,448.83  6.3757  610,087,218.91  
     HKD  42,720,682.35  0.8176  34,928,429.89  
    
Short-term borrowings    
Including: EUR  58,208,782.93  7.2197   420,249,950.14  
         USD 14,347,704.66  6.3757 91,476,660.61  
    
Accounts payable    
Including: USD  237,414,662.32  6.3757  1,513,684,662.55  
         HKD  1,460,345,721.20  0.8176  1,193,978,661.65  
         EUR  2,531,035.74  7.2197  18,273,318.73  
    
Long-term borrowings    
Including: EUR  146,000,000.00  7.2197  1,054,076,200.00  
         USD 60,744,787.08  6.3757 387,290,538.98  
    
Non-current liabilities due within 
one year - Long-term borrowings     
Including: EUR 4,036,666.67 7.2197 29,143,522.36  
         USD 87,929.17 6.3757  560,610.03  
 
62.2 Details of Overseas Operational Entities 
 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 343 
Name of overseas subsidiaries 
Main overseas 
operational 
office 
Recording 
Currency Basis of selection 
HDT International Ltd. Hongkong 
China HKD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Europe B.V. Netherlands USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Prama Hikvision Indian Private Limited India INR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision UK Limited UK GBP Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Italy (S.R.L.) Italy EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision International Co., Limited Hongkong 
China USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Australia PTY Ltd. Australia AUD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Spain, S.L.  Spain EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision France SAS France EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore SGD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa ZAR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision FZE UAE USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Poland Spolka Z Ograniczona 
Odpowiedzialnoscia. Poland  PLN Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikivision do Brasil Comercio de Equipamentos de 
Segurança Ltda. Brazil BRL Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision LLC Russia RUB Selection based on local economic environment 
Ezviz Inc. USA USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Cooperative Hikvision Europe U.A. Netherlands USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Korea Limited Korea KRW Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Colombia SAS  Columbia COP Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Kazakhstan Limited Liability Partnership Kazakhstan KZT Selection based on local economic environment 
Pyronix Ltd. UK GBP Selection based on local economic environment 
Microwave Solutions Limited UK GBP Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Turkey Technology And Security 
Systems Commerce Corporation Turkey TRY Selection based on local economic environment 
Syscom MX Mexico MXN Selection based on local economic environment 
Epcom MX Mexico MXN Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Chile SpA Chile CLP Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Hungary Limited Hungary HUF Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision New Zealand Limited New Zealand NZD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Czech S.R.O. Czech CZK Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Deutschland GmbH Germany EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Kenya (Pty) Ltd. Kenya KES Selection based on local economic environment 
LLC Hikvision Tashkent  Uzbekistan UZS Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia MYR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision USA,Inc. USA USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Canada INC. Canada CAD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Mexico S.A.de C.V . Mexico MXN Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Panama Commercial S.A. Panama USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Pakistan (SMC-Private) Limited Pakistan PKR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Peru Closed Stock Company Peru PEN Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Central America S.A. Panama USD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Technology Egypt JSC Egypt EGP Selection based on local economic environment 
PT. Hikvision Technology Indonesia Indonesia IDR Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Technologies S.R.L., Romania RON Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision IOT (Thailand) Co.,Ltd. Thailand THB Selection based on local economic environment 
                                                Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 344 
Name of overseas subsidiaries 
Main overseas 
operational 
office 
Recording 
Currency Basis of selection 
Hikvision West Africa Limited Nigeria NGN Selection based on local economic environment 
EZVIZ International Limited Hongkong China HKD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Azerbaijan Limited Liability Azerbaijan AZN Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Japan K.K. Japan JPY Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Argentina S.R.L. Argentina ARS Selection based on local economic environment 
HIKVISION Morocco LLC Morocco MAD Selection based on local economic environment 
Hikvision Technology Israel Ltd Israel ILS Selection based on local economic environment 
EZVIZ Europe B.V. Netherlands  EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
BK Grupė UAB Lithuania EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
BK EESTI AKTSIASELTS Estonia EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
SIA "BK Latvia" Latvia EUR Selection based on local economic environment 
63. Government Subsidies 
63.1 Categories 
Unit: RMB 
Category Amount Financial Report Items Amount booked in current profit 
and loss 
V A T Rebates 2,054,594,872.37  Other Income 2,054,594,872.37 
Special subsidies  1,299,616,345.83   
Including: other special subsidies 1,222,781,210.39 
Deferred income / Other 
income/ Non-operating 
income 
524,912,433.68 
Chongqing 
Manufacturing Base 
construction subsidies 
76,835,135.44 
Deferred income / Other 
income 36,117,454.10 
Tax Refund/Reduction 15,589,533.29 Other income/ Non-operating 
income 15,589,533.29 
Total 3,369,800,751.49  2,631,214,293.44 
 
63.2 There was no refund of government subsidies during the current reporting period.
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 345 
VI. Changes in Consolidation Scope 
1. Business Combination of Enterprises Not under the Same Control 
 
1.1 Business combination of enterprises not under the same control 
 
Daishan Hailai  
 
In June 2021, the Company's joint venture -Daishan Hailai’s original shareholders Zhoushan Islands New District Penglai State -owned Assets Investment Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter 
referred to as "Penglai SAI") and an independent third-party company, Daishan Haina Shuzhi Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “Haina Shuzhi”) signed an equity transfer agreement, 
and Penglai SAI transferred its 33.4% stake in Daishan Hailai to Haina Shuzhi. After the completion of the equity transfer, the Company holds 66.6% equity of Daishan Hailai, and Haina 
Shuzhi holds 33.4% equity of Daishan Hailai. On June 30 th 2021, the Company and Haina Shuzhi formed a common unanimous resolution to approve the Articles of Association of 
Daishan Hailai. Major matters involving the decision of the Company's development strategy and long-term planning must be approved by shareholders representing more than 2/3 of the 
voting rights, changed to shareholders representing more than 1/2 of the voting rights. Daishan Hailai has a total of 5 board members, 3 from Hikvision and 2 from Haina Shuzhi. Matters 
involving major financial and operating decisions must be approved by more than 2/3 of the Board of Directors,changed to be approved by more than 1/2 of the Board of Directors. 
Therefore, the Group can control the financial and operating decisions of Daishan Hailai, and has substantial control over it, so Daishan Hailai is included in the scope of the consolidated 
financial statements. 
 
Syscom MX and Epcom MX (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Subject Companies") 
 
Hikvision Singapore Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and the original shareholders of the Subject Companies jointly signed the STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
on January 30th 2021, and signed three supplementary agreements between June and September 2021 (the above agreement and the supplementary agreements are collectively referred to 
as the "Acquisition Agreements"), agreeing to acquire 51% of the equity in the Subject Companies held by two independent third parties at USD 61,035,256; from November 2020 to 
May 2021, the above a cquisition arrangements were field or approved by the Board of Directors of CETHIK Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “CETHIK”), the Ministry of 
Commerce of the People's Republic of China, the National Development and Reform Commission of the People’s Republic of China and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange 
of the People’s Republic of China (Branch of Zhejiang Province). The equity delivery of Syscom MX and Epcom MX have been completed on September 23rd 2021. Therefore, the Group 
took September 23rd 2021 as the acquisition date, and the Group incorporated the Subject Companies into consolidation scope from the acquisition date. As of December 31st 2021, the 
Company has completed the equity transfer payment of USD 61,035,256, which is equivalent to approximately RMB 395,838,055.75 exchanged at spot foreign exchange rate. As of the 
announcement date of the financial statements, the closing audit of the financial statements of the Subject Company on the acquisition date is in progress. 
 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 346 
Name of the acquiree Time of equity 
acquisition Equity acquisition cost 
Equity 
acquisition 
ratio 
(%) 
Equity acquisition 
method Date of acquisition 
 
Basis for determining 
the acquisition date 
Income of acquiree 
from acquisition data to 
the end of the reporting 
period  
 
Net profit of acquiree 
from acquisition data to 
the end of the reporting 
period 
 
Daishan Hailai June 2021 14,899,444.96 66.60% Change in voting 
rights June 30th 2021 
Date for obtaining 
actual control of the 
purchased party  
45,774,840.61 6,480,312.77  
Syscom MX September 2021  378,698,267.92 51.00% Cash Payments September 23rd 2021 
Equity delivery date 
for obtaining control 
of the purchased party 
774,040,976.53  82,010,831.97 
Epcom MX September 2021 17,139,787.83 51.00% Cash Payments September 23rd 2021 
Equity delivery date 
for obtaining control 
of the purchased party 
 18,125,454.54  2,057,929.50 
 
1.2 Cost of business combination and goodwill 
 
Cost of business combination Daishan Hailai Syscom MX Epcom MX 
-Cash   -  378,698,267.92 17,139,787.83 
- The acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest  14,899,444.96 - - 
Total cost of business combination 14,899,444.96  378,698,267.92  17,139,787.83 
Less: The fair value share of identifiable net assets obtained 14,899,444.96 304,312,721.16 18,303,720.79 
Goodwill/The amount that the combination cost is less than the amount of 
the fair value share of the identifiable net assets acquired -  74,385,546.76 (1,163,932.96) 
 
1.3 Acquiree’s book value of assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition 
 
 
Daishan Hailai Syscom MX Epcom MX 
Book value on the date of 
acquisition 
Fair value on the date of 
acquisition 
Book value on the date of 
acquisition 
Fair value on the date of 
acquisition 
Book value on the date of 
acquisition 
Fair value on the date of 
acquisition 
Assets:       
Cash and bank balances 44,354,803.41     44,354,803.41    26,037,489.00   26,037,489.00   1,841,232.60   1,841,232.60  
Accounts receivable  5,950,728.47     5,950,728.47    49,173,526.80   49,173,526.80   5,369,076.00   5,369,076.00  
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 347 
 
Daishan Hailai Syscom MX Epcom MX 
Book value on the date of 
acquisition 
Fair value on the date of 
acquisition 
Book value on the date of 
acquisition 
Fair value on the date of 
acquisition 
Book value on the date of 
acquisition 
Fair value on the date of 
acquisition 
Prepayments   71,115.98     71,115.98    114,085,276.20   114,085,276.20   130,906.80   130,906.80  
Other current assets  1,300,073.30     1,300,073.30   66,759,306.00 66,759,306.00 5,302,041.60 5,302,041.60 
Inventories  2,339,888.20     2,339,888.20    928,380,591.00   928,380,591.00   7,321,927.20   7,321,927.20  
Fixed assets   203,135.29     203,135.29    69,780,913.20   69,780,913.20   40,650,039.60  40,650,039.60  
Right–of-use assets   18,417.19     18,417.19   21,205,636.80 21,205,636.80 - - 
Other assets  25,438,535.65 25,438,535.65 29,698,768.80 29,698,768.80  2,431,894.20  2,431,894.20 
Liabilities:       
Notes payable - - 237,410,548.80 237,410,548.80 22,158,347.40 22,158,347.40 
Accounts payable 55,313,400.79     55,313,400.79    182,758,540.80   182,758,540.80   80,314.80   80,314.80  
Tax payable (31,062.40)  (31,062.40)   11,272,213.80   11,272,213.80  2,962,161.60 2,962,161.60 
Payroll payable   316,509.08     316,509.08    29,792,680.20   29,792,680.20   -  - 
Dividend payable - - 168,383,380.27 168,383,380.27 - - 
Other payables   43.88     43.88   46,989,849.60 46,989,849.60 959,350.80 959,350.80 
Lease liabilities   5,929.50     5,929.50   24,015,073.80 24,015,073.80 - - 
Other liabilities 1,700,337.66 1,700,337.66 7,807,610.41  7,807,610.41  997,294.80 997,294.80 
Net assets acquired 22,371,538.98     22,371,538.98   596,691,610.12 596,691,610.12 35,889,648.60 35,889,648.60 
 
1.4 The Group uses the market method and the income method to evaluate the fair value, and finally confirms the evaluation value on the basis of comparing the two evaluation methods. 
 
1.5 The Group has no contingent liabilities of the purchased party that need to be assumed in this merger. 
 
2. Disposal of a Subsidiary 
 
2.1 Loss of control of a subsidiary due to a single disposal of investment in the subsidiary 
 
In March 2021, The Group, CETHIK and EZVIZ Technology signed the Entrusted Management Agreement Termination Agreement, agreed that the Entrusted Management Agreement 
will be terminated on March 27 th 2021. After the termination of the Entrusted Management Agreement, the Group no longer controls the business of EZVIZ Tech nology, no longer 
responsible for the production, operation and management of EZVIZ Technology, and no longer enjoy other rights to EZVIZ Techn ology as stipulated in the Entrusted Management 
Agreement", so the business of EZVIZ Technology is no longer be included in the consolidation scope of the consolidated financial statements. 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 348 
Unit: RMB 
 Amount 
Name of the subsidiary EZVIZ Technology  
Consideration of equity disposal  8,000,000.00 
Ratio of equity disposal  100% 
Method of equity disposal Clear debt  
Date of loss of control   March 27 th 2021  
Determination basis for the date of loss of control Effective date of the Entrusted Management Agreement Termination Agreement  
Disposal of net assets 8,945,308.50 
The difference between the disposal consideration and the share that corresponding to the disposal of the 
subsidiary's net assets at the consolidated financial statement level  (945,308.50) 
 
3. Changes of Consolidation Scope due to Other Causes 
 
The subsidiaries newly established and incorporated in the consolidation scope during the current reporting period as follows: 
Company Name Time of establishment Registered capital Amount of contribution of the Group Ratio of 
contribution (%) 
Shanghe Smart City Technology Co., Ltd. ("Shanghe Smart 
City") (Note 1) April 2021 RMB 44.0571 million RMB 41.8542 million 95.00 
Chongqing EZVIZ Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Chongqing 
EZVIZ) (Note 2) June 2021 RMB 100 million RMB 60 million 60.00 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Automation Co., Ltd. ("Robotic 
Automation") (Note 3) December 2021 RMB 300 million RMB 180 million 60.00 
Hikvision Chile SpA (Note 3) December 2021 USD 300 thousand USD 300 thousand 100.00 
Hangzhou Haina Y uzhi Entrepreneurship Investment 
Partnership Co., Ltd. ("Haina Yuzhi Fund") (Note 4) December 2021 RMB 600 million RMB 400 million 66.67 
 
Note 1: At the end of the current reporting period, Shanghe Smart City ’s paid-in capital was RMB 44,057,100.00, of which RMB 41,854,200.00 was paid up by the Group and RMB 
2,202,900.00 was contributed by the minority shareholder, Shanghe Urban-Rural Integration Construction Co., Ltd. 
 
Note 2: At the end of the current reporting period, the paid in capital of Chongqing EZVIZ was RMB 100,000,000.00, which was fully contributed by Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 349 
Ltd., a subsidiary of the Group.  
 
Note 3: At the end of the current reporting period, Robotic Automation and Hikvision Chile SpA have not yet completed the paid-in capital, so there is no paid-in capital. 
 
Note 4: After the Proposal on Investing in the Establishment of Entrepreneurship Investment Partnerships and Related Party Transactions considered and approved at the 6th meeting of 
the 5th session of the Board of Directors held on October 22nd 2021, the Group, CETHIK, Hangzhou Hi-tech Entrepreneurship Investment Management Co., Ltd. and CETHIK (Hangzhou) 
Equity Investment Management Co., Ltd. jointly invested and established Haina Y uzhi Fund Company. Haina Yuzhi Fund Company is in the form of a limited partnership. It completed 
the industrial and commercial registration procedures on December 8th 2021, and obtained the Business License issued by the Hangzhou High-tech Industrial Development Zone (Binjiang) 
Market Supervision Administration. As of December 31st 2021, Haina Yuzhi Fund Company has completed the fundraising, with a total of RMB 600 million, of which CETHIK (Hangzhou) 
Equity Investment Management Co., Ltd. acts as the fund manager and general partner. contributed RMB 1 million and held 0.1667% of the shares; the Group, Hangzhou Hi-Tech Venture 
Capital Management Co., Ltd. and CETHIK, as limited partners, contributed RMB 400 million, RMB 120 million and RMB 79 million  in currency, holding 66.6666%, 20.0000% and 
13.1667% of the shares respectively. According to the partnership agreement of Haina Yuzhi Fund, the resolution of the partners meeting shall be approved by the partners who hold more 
than 2/3 (including this amount) of the total paid-in capital of the partnership; in addition, the Investment Committee is composed of 5 members, all investment matters must be approved 
by more than 1/2 of the representatives, and the Group has assigned more than half of the representatives to the Haina Yuzhi Fund’s Investment Committee. Therefore, the Group included 
Haina Yuzhi Fund into the scope of consolidation. 
 
The subsidiaries cancelled in the current reporting period and no longer included in the scope of consolidation are as follows: 
 
Company Name Date of equity disposition Proportion of shareholding (%) 
Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. April 2021 100.00 
Secure Holding Limited October 2021 100.00 
Guangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. November 2021 100.00 
Hikvision Joint-Stock Company December 2021 100.00 
VII. Interest in Other Entities 
1. Equity in Subsidiaries 
 
(1) Composition of the corporate group 
 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
Hangzhou Hikvision System Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang System integration, Technology 
development 100.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang manufacture 100.00 - Establishment 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 350 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
Hangzhou Hikvision Security Equipment Leasing Services Co., 
Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang Finance lease 100.00 - Establishment 
Chongqing Hikvision System Technology Co., Ltd. Chongqing Chongqing System integration 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision USA, Inc. USA Los Angeles Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
HDT International Ltd. Hong Kong China Hong Kong 
 China Sales 95.00 5.00 Establishment 
Prama Hikvision Indian Private Limited India Mumbai Sales 58.00 - 
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
Hikvision Europe B.V. Europe Amsterdam Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision FZE Dubai Dubai Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Chongqing Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd.  Chongqing Chongqing Manufacture 100.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou Fuyang Hik Baotai Security Technology Services Co., 
Ltd. (Note 1) Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang Construction - 51.00 Establishment 
Hikvision South Africa (Pty) Co., Ltd. South Africa South Africa Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Italy S.R.L. Italy Milan Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision do Brasil Comercio de Equipamentos de Seguranç a  
Ltda. Brazil Brazil Sales 95.00 5.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Australia PTY Co., Ltd. Australia Australia Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision International Co., Limited Hong Kong 
China   
Hong Kong 
China Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision France SAS France France Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Spain,S.L. Spain Spain Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Shanghai Goldway Intelligent Transportation System Co., Ltd. Shanghai Shanghai Manufacture 100.00 - 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Hikvision Joint-Stock Company (Note 2) Russia St. Peterburg Sales - 100.00 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Henan Hua’an Baoquan Intelligent 
Development Co., Ltd.  Zhengzhou Zhengzhou Henan Construction 93.86 - 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Henan Hua’an Security Services Co., Ltd.  Zhengzhou Zhengzhou Henan Services - 84.47 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 351 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Note 2) Shanghai Shanghai  Manufacture 100.00 - 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Hikvision UK Limited UK UK Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Poland Spolka Z Ograniczona Odpowiedzialnoscia  Poland Poland Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Electronics（Note 3） Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang Manufacture 73.30 - Establishment 
Cooperative Hikvision Europe U.A.  Netherlands Netherlands Sales 99.00 1.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Canada Inc.  Canada Canada Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision LLC  Moscow Moscow Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Korea Limited Korea Korea Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. (Note 4) Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
Ezviz Inc.  USA Los Angeles Sales - 60.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Haikang Zhicheng Investment Development Ltd Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang System integration 80.00 - 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikauto Technology Co., Ltd. (“Hangzhou Auto 
Technology”)  Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang  Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikvision Communication Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang Technology development 70.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou Microimage Sensing  Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Turkey Technology And Security Systems Commerce 
Corporation Turkey Istanbul Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Colombia SAS Columbia Santa Fe Bogota Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Kazakhstan limited liability partnership Kazakhstan Astana Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Secure Holding Limited (Note 2) British Sheffield Manufacture - 100.00 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Pyronix Limited British Sheffield Manufacture - 100.00 
Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
under common control 
Microwave Solutions Limited British Sheffield Manufacture - 100.00 Business combination 
not involving enterprises 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 352 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
under common control 
Hikvision Hungary Limited Hungary Hungary Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision New Zealand Limited New Zealand Auckland Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Urumqi HaiShi Xin’An Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Urumqi Urumqi, Xinjiang Construction - 90.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Ximu Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang Manufacture - 60.00 
Business combination 
involving enterprises under 
common control 
LLC Hikvision Tashkent  Uzbekistan Tashkent Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Kenya (Pty) Ltd. Kenya Kenya Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Auto Software  Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang Technology Development - 60.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Haikang Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang Technology Development - 60.00 Establishment 
Wuhan Hikstorage Technology Co., Ltd.(“Wuhan Hikstorage”) Wuhan 
Wuhan 
Hubei  Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
Chengdu Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Chengdu Chengdu 
Sichuan Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
MoYuHaiShi Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Hetian Hetian 
Xinjiang Construction - 85.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Software Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang  Technology development - 60.00 Establishment 
PiShan HaiShi YongAn Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Hetian Hetian 
Xinjiang System integration - 90.00 Establishment 
Henan Haikang Hua’an BaoQuan Electronics Co., Ltd. Zhengzhou Zhengzhou 
Henan Construction 93.86 - Establishment 
Hikvision Czech S.R.O. Czech Czech Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision (Malaysia) SDN. BHD Malaysia Malaysia Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Deutschland GmbH Germany Germany Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Xi’an Xueliang Construction Project Management 
Co., Ltd.  Xi’an Xi’an Shanxi Construction - 99.00 Establishment 
Luo Pu District HaiShi Ding Xin Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Hetian Hetian 
Xinjiang System integration - 90.00 Establishment 
Yu Tian HaiShi Mei Tian Electronic Technology Co., Ltd. Hetian Hetian System integration -  98.00 Establishment 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 353 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
Xinjiang 
Xi’An Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Xi’An Xi’an Shanxi Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
Wuhan Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd.  Wuhan Wuhan Hubei Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
Wuhan Hikvision Science and Technology Co., Ltd. Wuhan Wuhan Hubei Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Wuhan Hiksafety Technology Co., Ltd.   Wuhan Wuhan Hubei Sales - 60.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikimaging Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Zhejiang  Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Mexico S.A.de C.V. Mexico Mexico Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Guizhou Hikvision Transportation Big Data Co., Ltd.  Guiyang Guiyang, Guizhou Technology development 55.00 - Establishment 
Xinjiang CET Yihai Information Technology Co., Ltd.  Urumqi Urumqi, Xinjiang System integration 60.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Panama Commercial S.A Panama Panama Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Pakistan (SMC-Private) Limited Pakistan Pakistan Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Peru Closed Stock Company Peru Peru Sales 95.00 5.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Technology Israel Co., Ltd. Israel Israel Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Nanjing Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Nanjing Nanjing, Jiangsu Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Shijiazhuang Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd.  Shijiazhuang Shijiazhuang 
Hebei Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
Zhengzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.  Zhengzhou Zhengzhou 
Henan Sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Hikvision Central America S.A. Panama Panama Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision West Africa Limited Nigeria Nigeria Sales 94.00 6.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Technology Egypt JSC Egypt Egypt Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
EZVIZ Technology (Note 5) Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang  Sales - 60.00 
Business combination of 
enterprises under the same 
control  
Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Co., Ltd.  Hangzhou Hangzhou 
Zhejiang Technology development 80.00 - 
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control  
Hikvision Digital Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai Shanghai Technology development, sales 100.00 - Establishment 
Nanchang Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.  Nanchang Nanchang 
Jiangxi Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 354 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
Zhejiang Hiksafety Technology Co., Ltd.  Jiangshan Jiangshan 
Zhejiang Technology development - 60.00 Establishment 
Zhenping County Haikang Juxin Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Zhenping Zhenping 
Henan System integration - 90.00 Establishment 
Hefei Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Hefei Hefei 
Anhui Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
Tianjin Hikvision Information Technology Co., Ltd.  Tianjin Tianjin Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
Fuzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Fuzhou Fuzhou 
Fujian System integration 100.00 - Establishment 
Anhui Hikvision Urban Operation Service Co., Ltd.  Xuancheng Xuancheng 
Anhui System integration - 100.00 Establishment 
Zhejiang Haikang Urban Service Co., Ltd. (Note 4) Ningbo Ningbo 
Zhejiang Technology development 70.00 - Establishment 
Guangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. (Note 2) Guangzhou Guangzhou 
Guangdong Technology development 100.00 - Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikfire Technology Co., Ltd.  Hangzhou Hangzhou  
Zhejiang Technology development 60.00 - Establishment 
PT. Hikvision Technology Indonesia Indonesia Indonesia Sales  - 100.00 Establishment 
EZVIZ International Limited Hongkong Hongkong 
China Sales  - 60.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Technologies S.R.L., Romania Romania Sales  - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Azerbaijan Limited Liability Azerbaijan Azerbaijan Sales  - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision IOT (Thailand) CO.,LTD. Thailand Thailand Sales  - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Japan K.K. Japan Japan Sales  - 100.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Argentina S.R.L. Argentina Argentina Sales  95.00 5.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikstorage  Hangzhou   Hangzhou  
Zhejiang  Technology development - 60.00 Establishment 
Hangzhou Rayin Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou   Hangzhou  
Zhejiang  Technology development   60.00 - Establishment 
Kunming Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. Kunming Kunming 
Yunnan Sales  100.00   -  Establishment 
Hangzhou Microimage Software  Hangzhou   Hangzhou  
Zhejiang  Technology development   -   60.00  Establishment 
Hangzhou Microimage Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd. Hangzhou   Hangzhou  
Zhejiang  Technology development   -   60.00  Establishment 
Jinan Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.  Jinan Jinan  
Shandong Sales  100.00   -  Establishment 
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 355 
Name Location of 
operation Place of registration Nature of business Shareholding ratio (%) Acquisition 
Method Direct Indirect 
Hikvision Morocco LLC Morocco Morocco Sales - 100.00 Establishment 
EZVIZ Europe B.V . Netherland Netherland  Sales  -   60.00  Establishment 
BK Grupė UAB  Lithuania Lithuania Sales  -   100.00  
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
BK EESTI AKTSIASELTS  Estonia Estonia Sales - 100.00 
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
SIA “BK Latvia” Latvia Latvia Sales - 100.00 
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
Shanghe Smart City Ji’nan Ji’nan System integration - 95.00 Establishment 
Chongqing EZVIZ  Chongqing Chongqing Manufacture - 60.00 Establishment 
Robotic Automation Hangzhou Hangzhou  
Zhejiang Manufacture - 60.00 Establishment 
Hikvision Chile SpA Chile San Diego Sales  100.00  - Establishment 
Haina Yuzhi Fund Hangzhou Hangzhou  
Zhejiang Sales  66.67  - Establishment 
Daishan Hailai (Note 6) Zhoushan Zhoushan 
Zhejiang 
Technology development and 
sales 66.60 -   
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
Syscom MX (Note 7) Mexico Mexico Sales  -    51.00 
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
Epcom MX (Note 7) Mexico Mexico Sales  -    51.00 
Business combination of 
enterprises not under the 
same control 
 
Note 1: Fuyang Baotai is a subsidiary controlled by Hangzhou System, who holds 51 .00% equity interests. According to the Company's Articles of Association, Hangzhou System 
Company can control the major financial and operating decision-making matters of Fuyang Baotai, and the dividend ratio in this company is 50.00%. 
 
Note 2: The business licenses of Hikvision Joint-Stock Company, Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Secure Holding Limited and Guangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd.  
have been cancelledin 2021. 
 
Note 3: In August 2021, the Group redeemed 2% of the Company's shares held by China Development Bank Fund in Hangzhou Electronics. After the equity transfer was completed, the 
Group's shareholding in Hangzhou Electronics was changed to 73.30%, and China Development Bank Fund held 26.70% of the shares. Please refer to Note (V) 33 for details.  
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 356 
Note 4:Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Ltd. was renamed Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. in 2021 due to the completion of shareholding reform ; Ningbo Haikang Parking System 
Operation Co., Ltd. was renamed Zhejiang Haikang Urban Service Co., Ltd. in 2021. 
 
Note 5: The Group controlled EZVIZ Technology through the entrusted management agreement from April 2019 to March 2021, and terminated the entrusted management agreement on 
March 27th 2021, and no longer exercised the actual management right of EZVIZ Technology. From March 27th 2021, the Group no longer controlled EZVIZ Technology. Please refer to 
Note (VI) 2 for details.  
 
Note 6: The Group included "Daishan Hailai" in the scope of the consolidated financial statements during the reporting period. Please refer to Note (VI) 1 for details. 
 
Note 7: Hikvision Singapore Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 51.00% equity in Syscom MX and Epcom MX through cash in 2021. Please refer to Note (VI) 
1 for details. 
 
2. During the current reporting period, the Group did not have any changes in the share of owners' equity in subsidiaries and still controls the transactions of subsidiaries. 
3. Equity in Joint Ventures or Associates 
 
(1) Aggregated financial information of insignificant joint-ventures and associates 
Unit：RMB 
 Closing balance / Amount for 2021 Opening balance / Amount for 2020 
Associates：   
The aggregate carrying amount of investments in associates 235,962,431.82 193,646,038.77 
The aggregate amount of the following items calculated based on the Company’s equity share percentage 
of the associates  
  
- Net income (loss) 30,316,393.05 (5,199,282.72) 
- Other comprehensive income - - 
--Net income (loss) and total comprehensive income (loss) 30,316,393.05 (5,199,282.72) 
Joint Ventures:   
Total investment book value 746,203,114.63 670,380,671.46 
The sum of the following items calculated according to the shareholding ratio   
- Net income 83,820,888.13 11,560,671.46 
- Other comprehensive income  - - 
- Net income (loss) and total comprehensive income  83,820,888.13 11,560,671.46  
                                                                                                     Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31th 2021 
 
 
 357 
The Group uses the equity method to account for the aforementioned associates and joint ventures. 
 
(2) Unrecognized commitments related to investment in joint ventures 
Unit：000 RMB 
Joint Venture Capital Commitment (Note) 
Zhejiang City Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 11,500.00 
Shenzhen Hikvision Urban Service Operation Co., Ltd. 12,000.00 
Guangxi Haishi Urban Operation Management Co., Ltd. 11,000.00 
 
Note: The above capital commitments are the capital amounts that the Group has subscribed but not paid in to the above joint ventures.
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 358 
VIII. Risks Associated with Financial Instrument 
The Group's principal financial instruments inclu de cash and bank balances, other non-current financial assets, notes 
receivable, accounts receivable, receivables for financing, other receivables, long -term receivables, borrowings, notes 
payable, accounts payable, other payables, part of the other curren t liabilities, lease liabilities, long-term payables, other 
non-current liabilities(except for contract liabilities), derivative financial instruments, etc. Details of these financial 
instruments are set out in Note (V). Below are the risks associated with such financial instruments and the risk management 
policies adopted by the Group to mitigate such risks. The management of the Group manages and monitors such risk 
exposures to ensure such risks are contained within a prescribed scope. 
 
1. Classification of Financial Instruments 
Unit: RMB  
Items Closing balance of the current 
reporting period 
Opening balance of the current year 
(restated) 
Financial assets：   
Measured at fair value through current profit and loss   
Held –for-trading financial assets 34,320,010.83 22,679,846.77 
Other non-current financial assets 438,724,172.22 491,939,067.27 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income  
  
Receivables for financing  1,316,035,122.06 1,959,601,195.25 
Measured at amortized cost   
Cash and bank balances 34,721,870,931.36 35,459,729,108.27 
Notes receivable 1,522,760,905.30 1,303,252,705.19 
Accounts receivable 26,174,773,100.42 22,056,067,917.79 
Other receivables 359,620,445.88 519,026,062.82 
Long-term receivables 613,067,944.97 485,746,490.32 
Non-current assets due within one year 975,960,437.14 850,871,579.78 
 
Items Closing balance of the current 
reporting period 
Opening balance of the current year 
(restated) 
Financial liabilities    
Measured at fair value through current profit and loss   
Held-for-trading financial liabilities  4,062,317.57 7,405,771.15 
   
Measured at amortized cost   
Short-term borrowings 4,074,962,469.97 3,999,246,634.59 
Notes payable 1,339,998,383.34 1,036,920,229.85 
Accounts payable 15,889,694,981.12 13,593,884,790.19 
Other payables  1,830,626,583.03 1,525,053,355.95 
Non-current liabilities due within one year  596,915,360.58 3,644,798,414.28 
Other current liabilities 511,611,642.53 560,959,368.73 
Long-term borrowings 3,284,371,642.52 1,961,167,761.30 
Lease liabilities 317,951,879.21 230,055,273.70 
Long-term payables 9,009,331.50 16,542,466.08 
Other non-current liabilities(excluding contract liabilities) 511,594,361.52 560,959,368.74 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 359 
The Group adopts sensitivity analysis techniques to analyze the possible effects of rational and probable changes in risk 
variables to profit or loss for the period or to the interests of shareholders. Since risk variables seldom change on a stand-
alone basis, while the correlation be tween variables may have significant influence to the ultimate amount of change 
effected by the change in a single risk variable, the analysis below is based on the assumption that the changes in each 
variable occurred separately. 
 
2. Objectives and Policies of Risk Management 
 
The Group engages in risk management with the aim of achieving an appropriate balance between risk and return, where 
the negative effects of risks against the Group’s operating results are minimized, in order to maximize the benefits of  
shareholders and other stakeholders. Based on such objective in risk management, the underlying strategy of the Group’s 
risk management is to ascertain and analyze all types of risks exposures of the Group, establish appropriate risk tolerance 
thresholds, carry out risk management procedures and perform risk monitoring on all kinds of risks in a timely and reliable 
manner, thus containing risk exposures within a prescribed scope. 
 
2.1 Market risks 
 
2.1.1 Foreign exchange risks 
 
Foreign exchange risks refer to the risk that losses will occur because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company 
is primarily exposed to risks relating to the currencies such as USD, EUR and etc. The Group’s subsidiaries in the mainland 
of China whose procurement, sales and financing are denominated in RMB, USD and EUR. Other principal activities are 
settled in RMB. The Group’s subsidiaries in Hong Kong and outside China are principally engaged in procurement, sales, 
financing and other major business activities in local currencies such as USD, EUR, GBP, INR, and etc. 
 
As of December 31st 2021, except for monetary items of foreign currencies set out in Note (V) 62, the Group mainly 
adopted the functional currency of each of its subsidiary to present the balance of its assets and liabilities. The foreign 
exchange risks arising from assets and liabilities denominated in USD and EUR (which has been converted into RMB) as 
follows may generate significant impact on the operating results of the Group. 
Unit: RMB  
Currencies 
Assets Liabilities  
Closing balance  Opening balance  Closing balance  Opening balance  
USD 2,310,527,721.21  7,122,984,916.82 1,993,012,472.17  1,886,490,280.88 
EUR 2,510,521,255.35  1,480,297,345.67 1,521,742,991.23  3,284,414,031.21 
 
The Group has been paying close attention to the effect of fluctuation in exchange rate on the foreign exchange risks of 
the Group, and has purchased various financial derivative instruments, such as forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign 
exchange options contracts, interest rate swap contracts and etc., to mitigate the foreign exchange risk exposure. 
 
Sensitivity analysis on exchange rate risk 
 
With other variables unchanged, the exchange rate might float within a reasonable range, and has the following before -
tax effect on profit or loss and shareholders’ equity for the current period: 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 360 
 
Unit: RMB  
Change in foreign exchange rates  
2021 2020 
Effect on profit Effect on 
shareholders’ equity Effect on profit Effect on 
shareholders’ equity 
5% appreciation of USD against functional currency 15,875,762.45  15,875,762.45  261,824,731.80 261,824,731.80 
5% depreciation of USD against functional currency (15,875,762.45)  (15,875,762.45)  (261,824,731.80) (261,824,731.80) 
5% appreciation of EUR against functional currency  49,438,913.21  49,438,913.21  (90,205,834.28) (90,205,834.28) 
5% depreciation of EUR against functional currency (49,438,913.21)  (49,438,913.21)  90,205,834.28 90,205,834.28 
 
2.1.2. Interest rate risk 
 
The risk of changes in cash flow of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates exposed to the Group are primarily 
related to bank borrowings bearing floating interest rate and bank deposits bearing floating interest rate. 
 
At the end of the current reporting period, the amount of borrowing s of the Group bearing floating interest rate is not 
significant, and the risk of changes in cash flow of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates is expected to be 
insignificant. 
 
The Group expects that the risk exposure of cash flow generat ed from bank deposits bearing floating interest rate is 
insignificant. 
 
The Group determines the relative proportion of fixed interest rate contracts and floating interest rate contracts based on 
the prevailing market environment. The Group’s interest-bearing debts bearing floating interest rates were mainly RMB-
denominated PPP pledged long -term borrowing contracts with an amount of RMB 1, 455,221,540.20 (Note (V) 33) 
(December 31st 2020: RMB-denominated PPP pledged long-term borrowings with an amount of RMB 1,556,927,316.08 
(Note (V) 33)). 
 
The headquarter finance department of the Group continuously monitors the level of interest rate of the Group. Rising 
interest rates will increase the cost of newly incurred interest -bearing debts and the Group ’s interest  expenses on 
outstanding interest-bearing debts with floating interest rates, and have a significant adverse impact on the financial 
performance of the Group. The management team would make adjustments on a timely basis based on the latest market 
conditions, including arrangements for interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk. As at December 31st 2021, the interest 
rate swap arrangements of the Group are detailed in Note (V) 2. 
 
2.1.3. Other price risks 
 
The Group’s price risk mainly arises from inve stments in held -for-trading equity instruments and derivative financial 
instruments. Held -for-trading equity instrument investments are all investments in unlisted held -for-trading equity 
instruments. 
 
The Group is exposed to price risk due to the holding of financial assets measured at fair value. The fair value of certain 
financial instruments is determined by the general pricing model based on discounted future cash flow method or other 
valuation techniques, while the valuation techniques are based on certain valuation assumptions. Therefore, the valuation 
results are highly sensitive to valuation assumptions. However, at the end of the current reporting period, the amount of 
investment in held -for-trading equity instruments and derivative financial instr uments is not significant, and the risk 
exposure due to changes in price of financial instruments as a result of change in valuation assumptions is low, accordingly, 
no sensitivity analysis is conducted. 
 
2.2 Credit Risk 
 
As of December 31st 2021, the largest credit risk exposure that may result in financial losses of the Group is mainly due to 
the loss of the Group ’s financial assets arising from the failure of the counterparty to perform its obligations, including: 
cash and bank balance s (Note (V) 1), not es receivable (Note (V) 3), accounts receivable (Note (V) 4), receivables for 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 361 
financing (Note (V) 5), other receivables (Note (V) 7), non -current assets due within one year (Note (V) 10), long -term 
receivables (Note (V) 12), etc., and derivative financial assets that are not included in the scope of impairment assessment 
and are measured at fair value through current profit or loss (Note (V) 2). As of the balance sheet date, the book value of 
the Group’s financial assets represents its maximum credit risk exposure. 
 
In order to reduce credit risk, the Group has formed a team to determine the credit limit, conduct credit approval, and 
implement other monitoring procedures to ensure that necessary measures are taken to recover over-due debt. In addition, 
the Group reviews the recovery of financial assets on each balance sheet date to ensure that sufficient credit loss provisions 
are made for relevant financial assets. Therefore, the management of the Group believes that the credit risk exposure of 
the Group has been reduced significantly. 
 
The credit risk on cash and bank balances of the Group is low as they are deposited with banks with high credit ratings. 
 
For accounts receivable, contract assets and long-term receivables, the Group has put in place relevant policies to control 
credit risk exposure. The Group assesses credit quality of customers and sets corresponding credit period based on the 
customer’s financial status, the possibility of obtaining guarantees from third parties, credit history and other factors such 
as current market conditions. The Group will regularly monitor the credit history of its customers. For customers with 
poor credit history, the Group takes various measures, such as written payment reminders, shorten or cancel the credit 
period, to ensure that the overall credit risk of the Group is maintained in a controllable range. For accounts receivable 
and contract assets, the Group uses a simplified method, that is, to measure the loss provision based on the amount 
equivalent to the expected credit loss for the entire duration. For details of the relevant expected credit loss measurement, 
see (Note (V) 4 & Note (V)  9). For long-term receivables, the Group calculates the expected credit losses based on the 
expected credit loss rate in the next 12 months or the entire duration based on the default risk exposure. For details of the 
related expected credit loss measurement, see (Note (V) 12). 
 
The Group’s notes receivable and receivables for financing are mainly bank acceptance notes and commercial acceptance 
notes with high credit ratings of the counterparties, which the Group does not consider to be subject to significant credit 
risk and will not incur any material loss due to default by the counterparties. 
 
For other receivables, the Group regu larly monitors the debtor’s credit history. For debtors with poor credit history, the 
Group takes various measures such as written payment reminders to ensure that the Group ’s overall credit risk is 
maintained in a controllable range. For other receivables , the Group calculates the expected credit loss based on the 
expected credit loss ratio in the next 12 months or the entire duration based on the default risk exposure. For details of the 
relevant expected credit loss measurement, see (Note (V) 7). 
 
The Gr oup’s risk exposure is distributed among multiple contractors and multiple customers, so the Group has no 
significant credit concentration risk. 
 
2.3. Liquidity risk 
 
The Group maintains and monitors a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management to meet the 
operation needs of the Group and to reduce the effect of cash flow movements when managing liquidity risk. The 
management of the Group monitors the usage of bank borrowings, and ensures compliance with borrowing agreements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 362 
According to the term to maturity of non -discounted and remaining contract obligations, the financial liabilities held by 
the Group are analyzed as below: 
Unit：RMB 
December 31st 2021 
 Within one year 1-5 years More than 5 years Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Short-term borrowings 4,144,481,304.54 - - 4,144,481,304.54 
Notes payable  1,339,998,383.34 - - 1,339,998,383.34 
Accounts payable 15,889,694,981.12 - - 15,889,694,981.12 
Other payables 1,830,626,583.03 - - 1,830,626,583.03 
Other current liabilities 511,611,642.53 - - 511,611,642.53 
Other non-current liabilities - 511,594,361.52 - 511,594,361.52 
Long-term borrowings (including 
those due within one year) 439,797,310.64  2,585,483,339.61  1,123,671,498.12  4,148,952,148.37  
Lease liabilities (including those 
due within one year) 267,240,140.55 287,604,669.92 47,977,039.33 602,821,849.80 
Long-term payables (including 
those due within one year) 1,994,152.05 10,205,847.95 -    12,200,000.00 
Derivative financial instruments     
Forward foreign exchange 
contracts, foreign exchange option 
contracts and interest rate swap 
contracts- settled in the gross 
amount 
    
- Cash inflow 1,570,626,151.48 16,216,056.49    -    1,586,842,207.97 
- Cash outflow 1,544,987,718.59 11,441,895.59     -    1,556,429,614.18 
- Net cash inflow 25,638,432.89 4,774,160.90 -    30,412,593.79 
 
 
IX. Fair Value Disclosure 
 
1. The Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value at the end of the Reporting Period 
Unit：RMB 
Items 
Closing fair value 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total  
I. Continuous fair value 
measurement 
 -    1,346,292,815.32 438,724,172.22 1,785,016,987.54 
(I) Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit and loss 
 34,320,010.83 438,724,172.22 473,044,183.05 
1. Held-for-trading Financial 
Assets 
 -    34,320,010.83 - 34,320,010.83 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 363 
Items 
Closing fair value 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total  
- Derivative financial  
assets 
 -    34,320,010.83 - 34,320,010.83 
2. Other non-current  
financial assets 
 -    - 438,724,172.22 438,724,172.22 
(II) Receivables for financing   -    1,316,035,122.06 - 1,316,035,122.06 
Total assets measured continuously 
at fair value 
 -    1,350,355,132.89 438,724,172.22 1,789,079,305.11 
(III) Financial liabilities measured at 
fair value through profit and loss 
 4,062,317.57 - 4,062,317.57 
1. Held-for-trading Financial 
Liabilities 
 -    4,062,317.57 - 4,062,317.57 
- Derivative financial  
liabilities 
 -    4,062,317.57 - 4,062,317.57 
Total liabilities measured 
continuously at fair value 
 -    4,062,317.57 - 4,062,317.57 
 
2. Information on the Estimation Technique and Important Parameters Adopted as for Continuous Level 2 Fair 
Value Measurement Items 
Unit: RMB 
 
Fair value at  
December 31st 
2021 
Estimation technique Inputs 
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts, 
Foreign Exchange Options Contracts and 
Interest Rate Swap Contracts (Assets) 
34,320,010.83 Discounted cash flow 
approach 
Exchange rate or interest rate 
Discounted rate that reflects the credit risk 
of counterparty 
Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts 
(Liabilities)  (4,062,317.57) Discounted cash flow 
approach 
Forward exchange rate 
Discounted rate that reflects the credit risk 
of counterparty 
Receivables for financing  1,316,035,122.06 Discounted cash flow 
approach 
Discounted rate that reflects the credit risk 
of counterparty 
 
3. The Third Level of Fair Value Measurement Item, the Valuation Techniques and Important Parameters Used 
Unit: RMB 
Items Fair value on 
December 31st 2021 Valuation techniques Inputs 
Other non-current financial 
assets-- Investment in equity 
instruments of private 
companies 
438,724,172.22 Market approach 
/Income approach 
Comparable public companies’ PB (price/book 
value) ratio within the same industry 
/Future cash flows, Discount rate 
 
4. The Third Level of Fair Value Measurement Item, Adjustment Information between the Opening and Closing 
Book Value 
Unit: RMB 
Other non-current financial assets  Amount 
Book value on January 1st 2021 491,939,067.27 
Increase in the current reporting period - 
Decrease in the current reporting period - 
Changes in fair value booked into profit and loss during the current reporting period (53,214,895.05) 
Book value on December 31st 2021 438,724,172.22 
 
The total amount included in profit or loss in 2021 includes unrealized losses of RMB 53,214,895.05 (2020: RMB 
69,478,784.83) related to financial assets measured at fair value at the end of the current reporting period, and such gains 
or losses are included in the gains or losses from changes in fair value; the realized gains of financial assets measured at 
fair value at the end of the current reporting period which were included in investment income was RMB 115,644,801.97 
(2020: RMB 150,000,000.00). 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 364 
5. Items easured at continuous fair value. There were no transfers between levels for the current reporting 
period. There was no estimation technique change for the current reporting period 
 
6. Fair Values of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities that not Measured at Fair Value 
 
The Group’s management team believes that financial assets and financial liabili ties measured at amortized cost mainly 
include cash and bank balances , notes receivable, accounts receivable, other receivables, non -current assets due within 
one year, long-term receivables, short-term borrowings, notes payable, accounts payable, other payables, other current 
liabilities (other than Output V AT to-be-transferred), non-current liabilities due within one year, long -term borrowings, 
long-term payables and other non-current liabilities, etc., carrying value of which approximates to its fair value. 
 
X. Related Party Relationships and Transactions 
 
1. Information on Parent Company of the Company 
 
Name Place of 
registration 
Nature of 
business Registered capital 
Shareholding ratio of 
parent company in the 
Company (%) 
Percentage of voting 
rights of parent 
company to the 
Company (%) 
China Electronics Technology 
HIK Group Co., Ltd. 
(CETHIK) 
Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 
Industrial 
investment RMB 660 million 36.46 36.46 
 
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is China Electronics Technology Group Co., Ltd. ("CETC"). 
 
2. Information on the Subsidiaries of the Company 
 
For details of the subsidiaries of the Company, see Note (VII). 
 
 
3. Information on the Joint Ventures and Associated Companies of the Company 
Joint ventures and associates that had related party transactions with the Group in the current reporting period, or in the 
prior periods and formed balances are as follows: 
 
Name of the associates or joint ventures  Relationship with the Company  
Wuhu Sensor Technology Co., Ltd. (Wuhu Sensor Tech) and its subsidiaries Associated company  
Maxio Technology (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Maxio Technology) and 
its subsidiaries Associated company  
Zhiguang Hailian Big Data Technology Co., Ltd. (Zhiguang Hailian) and its subsidiaries Associated company  
Jiaxin Haishi JiaAn Zhicheng Technology Co., Ltd. (Haishi JiaAn) Associated company  
Qinghai Qingtang Big Data Co., Ltd.  (Qingtang Big Data)  Associated company  
Sanmenxia Xiaoyun Vision Technology Co., Ltd. (Xiaoyun Vision Technology) Associated company  
Daishan Hailai (Note) 
Guangxi Haishi City Operation Management Co., Ltd. (Guangxi Haishi) and its 
subsidiaries Joint venture  
Shenzhen Hikvision Urban Service Operation Co., Ltd. (Shenzhen Urban Service) and 
its subsidiaries Joint venture  
Xuzhou Kangbo City Operation Management Service Co., Ltd. (Xuzhou Kangbo) Joint venture  
Yunnan Yinghai Parking Service Co., Ltd. (Yunnan Yinghai) Joint venture  
Zhejiang City Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Zhejiang City Digital Technology) Joint venture  
Zhejiang Haishi Huayue Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (Haishi Huayue) Joint venture  
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 365 
Note: During the period from January 1st 2021 to June 30th 2021, Daishan Hailai waswas a joint venture of the Company. 
On June 30th 2021, the Company included Daishan Hailai in the scope of the consolidated financial statements, see Note 
(VI) 1 for details. 
 
4. Information on Other Related Parties 
 
Name Relationship 
Gong Hongjia Major shareholder and director of the Company that holds 
more than 5% of the share of the Company 
Shanghai Fullhan Microelectronics Co., Ltd. (Shanghai Fullhan Micro) 
and its subsidiaries Gong Hongjia or his relative(s) serve(s) as the director(s) 
Shenzhen Wanyu Security Service Technology Co., Ltd. (Shenzhen 
Wanyu Security Service) and its subsidiaries  
The Group’s senior management serve(s) as director(s) of this 
company 
Confirmware Technology(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. (Hangzhou 
Confirmware) 
The Group’s senior management serve(s) as director(s) of this 
company  
Zhejiang Fast Line data fusion Information Technology Co.,Ltd.. 
(Zhejiang Fast Line data fusion) and its subsidiaries 
The Group’s senior management serve(s) as director(s) of this 
company 
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng Network Technology Co., Ltd. (Chengdu 
Guoshengtianfeng) and its subsidiaries 
The Group’s senior management serve(s) as director(s) of this 
company 
Ruihua Innovation Management Research Institute (Hangzhou) Co., 
Ltd. (Ruihua Innovation) 
The Group’s independent director(s) serve(s) as director(s) of 
this company 
INESA (Group) Co., Ltd. (INESA) and its subsidiaries The Group’s supervisor(s) serve(s) as director(s) of this 
company 
Aurotek Corporation. (Aurotek) and its subsidiaries The Group’s former independent director(s) serve(s) as 
director(s) of this company (Note 1) 
Subsidiaries of CETC (Note 2)  Under common control of the ultimate controlling party of the 
Company 
 
Note 1: Due to the departure of the independent director of the Group in 2021, 2021 is the first year of him/her departure, 
therefore, Aurotek Corporation was still recognized as a related party of the Group in 2021. 
 
Note 2: Subsidiaries of CETC, excluding Hikvision and its subsidiaries. 
 
5. Related Party Transactions 
 
(1)  Related party transactions regarding sales and purchases of goods, provision of services and receiving services 
 
Purchase of commodities / receiving of services: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction type Amount occurred in 2021 Amount occurred in 2020 
Subsidiaries of CETC Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  1,996,000,573.93   826,842,233.14  
Shanghai Fullhan Micro and its 
subsidiaries 
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  1,073,447,072.07   243,902,272.09  
Maxio Technology and its subsidiaries Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  259,171,002.11   20,353,951.20  
Wuhu Sensor Tech Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  120,154,019.26   61,712,356.51  
Aurotek Corporation and its subsidiaries Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  3,277,839.15   -    
Yunnan Yinghai Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  94,339.62   -    
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng and its 
subsidiaries 
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  74,716.98   -    
Shenzhen Urban Service and its 
subsidiaries  
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  31,026.60  357,000.00    
Ruihua Innovation  Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  3,564.36   -    
Zhejiang City Digital Technology Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  1,811.32   -    
Haishi Huayue Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  -     1,743,775.22  
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 366 
Related party Transaction type Amount occurred in 2021 Amount occurred in 2020 
Zhiguang Hailian and its subsidiaries Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  -     135,782.26  
Total   3,452,255,965.40  1,155,047,370.42  
 
Sales of commodities / rendering of services: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction content Amount occurred in 2021 Amount occurred in 2020 
Subsidiaries of CETC Sales of products and 
rendering of services 434,709,999.06  350,558,721.59  
Haishi JiaAn Sales of products and 
rendering of services 53,229,545.96 38,199,938.50 
Zhiguang Hailian and its subsidiaries  Sales of products and 
rendering of services 34,122,127.77  14,374,052.45  
Zhejiang City Digital Technology Sales of products and 
rendering of services 22,752,048.23 13,760,843.37 
Shenzhen Urban Service and its 
subsidiaries 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 20,975,222.90 46,006.90 
Daishan Hailai Sales of products and 
rendering of services 16,858,777.71  29,854,444.59  
Guangxi Haishi and its subsidiaries Sales of products and 
rendering of services 11,494,038.20  1,769,911.50  
Haishi Huayue Sales of products and 
rendering of services 10,976,412.61  3,685,281.81  
INESA and its subsidiaries  Sales of products and 
rendering of services  8,315,234.00   -    
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng and its 
subsidiaries 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services  7,006,078.70   -    
Hangzhou Confirmware Sales of products and 
rendering of services  1,217,367.24   589,159.33  
Wuhu Sensor Tech and its subsidiaries Sales of products and 
rendering of services  841,349.20   1,906,811.54  
Qingtang Big Data  Sales of products and 
rendering of services  540,138.06   1,492,966.38  
Zhejiang Fast Line data fusion and its 
subsidiaries 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services  293,172.58   -    
Xuzhou Kangbo Sales of products and 
rendering of services  165,779.30   3,150,603.57  
Maxio Technology and its subsidiaries Sales of products and 
rendering of services  118,306.02   153,465.93  
Xiaoyun Vision Technology Sales of products and 
rendering of services  5,663.71   3,748,314.02  
Wanyu Security and its subsidiaries  Sales of products and 
rendering of services  -     198,230.06  
Yunnan Yinghai Sales of products and 
rendering of services  -     18,259,614.17  
Total    623,621,261.25   481,748,365.71  
 
Statement of capital deposits:  
Unit: RMB 
Related Party Content of related 
party transaction 
Amount occurred 
in 2021 
Balance at the end of the current 
reporting period 
Amount 
occurred in 
2020 
Opening Balance 
Subsidiaries of CETC Deposit into 
current deposits  500,006,734.20 500,006,734.20 - - 
Subsidiaries of CETC Deposit into fixed 
deposits 
- 4,000,000,000.00 - 4,000,000,000.00 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 367 
Related Party Content of related 
party transaction 
Amount occurred 
in 2021 
Balance at the end of the current 
reporting period 
Amount 
occurred in 
2020 
Opening Balance 
Total   500,006,734.20 4,500,006,734.20 - 4,000,000,000.00 
 
Note: For the deposit deposited by the Group with China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd., the deposit interest 
income was RMB 80,001,932.23.  
 
The above transactions are executed at market prices. 
 
(2)  Guaranteed by the related party 
 
As required by the project owner, China Electronics Technology Group Co., Ltd. has provided a joint guarantee to 
responsibility and duties of construction projects of “Safe Chongqing, Emergency Control System Digital Construction 
Project”, including 41 districts and counties, signed by the Group’s subsidiary Chongqing Hikvision System Technology 
Ltd. (Chongqing System) Meanwhile, the Company , Hikvision,  provides a counter guarantee to China Electronics 
Technology Group Co., Ltd. 
 
(3) Compensation for key managers 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Amount occurred in 2021 Amount occurred in 2020 
Compensation for key managers 40,571,163.91 38,952,000.00 
 
(4) Other related party transactions 
Sale-leaseback   
 
Pursuant to resolution of the Company’s 7th meeting of the fourth session of the Board of Directors held on December 3rd 
2018, the Group’s subsidiary Hangzhou Microimage Sensing signed a financial leasing contract with a subordinate 
company of CETC, Hangzhou Microimage Sensing will carry out sale - leaseback business of part of its self -owned 
equipment with the CETC’s subordinate company. The new financing amount in 2019 was RMB 70  million, with lease 
term of 48 months, and the annual lease rate is 3.8%. On December 31st 2021, Hangzhou Microimage Sensing confirmed 
right-of-use assets of RMB 23,923,145.37 and lease liabilities of RMB 22,591,498.84. In 2021, the interest on lease 
liabilities is RMB 2,087,283.49. 
 
Entrusted management of the interest expenditure of borrowed funds 
 
On April 19th 2019, CETHIK signed an entrusted management agreement with the holding subsidiary of the Company, 
Hangzhou EZVIZ  Network Ltd. (“EZVIZ Network”) to entrust EZVIZ Network to exercise the actual operating 
management right over Hangzhou EZVIZ Technology Ltd. (“EZVIZ Technology”), and be fully responsible for the 
production, operation and management of EZVIZ Technology, and EZVIZ Network sha ll not charge fixed entrusted 
management fees from CETHIK while EZVIZ Network is entitled to the 100% distributable profits generated by EZVIZ 
Technology prior to or after the entrusted management. At the same time, EZVIZ Network shall make a payment to 
CETHIK as occupying fund fees at the basis of paid -in capital of EZVIZ Technology of RMB 8,000,000.00 and at an 
interest rate up by 1% for loans over five years in the Central Bank. In 2021, EZVIZ Network intends to terminate the 
entrusted management of EZVIZ Technology. In March 2021, EZVIZ Network signed the Termination Agreement of the 
Entrusted Management Agreement  with CETHK and EZVIZ Technology, agreeing that the Entrusted Management 
Agreement shall be terminated on March 27th 2021. After the termination of the Entrusted Management Agreement, EZVIZ 
Network will no longer exercise the actual operation and management rights over EZVIZ Technology, or be responsible 
for the production, operation and management of EZVIZ Technology, or enjoy other rights o ver EZVIZ Technology as 
agreed in the Entrusted Management Agreement. The Group ceased to control EZVIZ Technology since March 27th 2021 
and therefore ceased to include the operations of EZVIZ Technology in the scope of consolidation of the consolidated 
financial statements. The interest expenses on the above -mentioned capital possession incurred in the current reporting 
period amounts to RMB 131,659.87.  
 
6. Receivables from Related Parties and Payables to Related Parties 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 368 
(1) Receivables from related parties 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Accounts 
receivable Subsidiaries of CETC  756,888,051.10   209,305,306.47   694,163,118.90   108,859,842.53  
Accounts 
receivable Haishi JiaAn  64,817,786.83   1,830,797.36   29,762,113.04   975,776.51  
Accounts 
receivable 
Zhiguang Hailian and its 
subsidiaries  11,797,104.73   310,298.49   9,436,662.00   111,434.71  
Accounts 
receivable 
Xiaoyun Vision 
Technology  9,326,361.72   1,319,097.41   10,929,211.22   412,855.37  
Accounts 
receivable 
Zhejiang City Digital 
Technology  9,022,181.94   102,459.57   12,427,421.59   561,604.39  
Accounts 
receivable 
Shenzhen Urban Service 
and its subsidiaries  5,850,573.44   287,926.66   -     -    
Accounts 
receivable 
Chengdu 
Guoshengtianfeng and its 
subsidiaries 
 2,504,232.29   23,633.21   -     -    
Accounts 
receivable Haishi Huayue  2,403,342.00   39,213.42   2,112,591.44   42,509.22  
Accounts 
receivable 
Guangxi Haishi and its 
subsidiaries  2,068,681.99   101,978.52   -     -    
Accounts 
receivable INESA and its subsidiaries  1,503,248.00   51,765.16   -     -    
Accounts 
receivable 
Wuhu Sensor Tech and its 
subsidiaries   821,865.40   153,442.27   823,165.40   37,207.08  
Accounts 
receivable Xuzhou Kangbo   517,419.71   60,722.44   786,702.90   35,558.97  
Accounts 
receivable Qingtang Big Data  330,000.00   13,959.00   660,000.00   29,832.00  
Accounts 
receivable 
Zhejiang Fast Line data 
fusion and its subsidiaries  231,399.50   2,013.17   -     -    
Accounts 
receivable Hangzhou Confirmware  113,381.69   3,535.91   83,150.00   981.17  
Accounts 
receivable 
Maxio Technology and its 
subsidiaries  -     -     45,667.50   538.88  
Accounts 
receivable Daishan Hailai Not applicable  Not applicable  16,387,257.40   194,920.07  
Total    868,195,630.34   213,606,149.06   777,617,061.39   111,263,060.90  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Notes 
receivable Subsidiaries of CETC  78,858,666.10   -     78,876,284.35  -    
Notes 
receivable Haishi JiaAn   5,000,000.00   -     9,147,466.00  -    
Notes 
receivable 
Zhejiang City Digital 
Technology  1,444,385.00   -     -    - 
Notes 
receivable 
Zhiguang Hailian and its 
subsidiaries   -     -     1,120,000.00  -    
Total   85,303,051.10   -     89,143,750.35  -    
 
Note: The RMB 17,267,512.00 (2020: RMB 4,000,000.00) notes receivable are the acceptance bills of which the drawer 
is the related party, and the former endorsers are unrelated third parties.  
 
Unit: RMB 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 369 
Item Related Party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Other 
receivables Subsidiaries of CETC   645,000.00   99,483.50   132,459.00   1,563.02  
Other 
receivables 
Shenzhen Urban Service 
and its subsidiaries   140,000.00   1,218.00   140,000.00   1,652.00  
Other 
receivables Haishi Huayue   104,182.74   906.39   279,452.11   3,297.53  
Other 
receivables 
Wuhu Sensor Tech and 
its subsidiaries  10,485.27   91.22   -     -    
Total    899,668.01   101,699.11   551,911.11   6,512.55  
 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
 
Subsidiaries of CETC   38,579,578.71   2,451,642.33   73,512,305.64   2,015,923.07  
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Yunnan Yinghai  16,992,563.72   147,251.94   21,444,096.16   253,040.33  
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Shenzhen Urban 
Service and its 
subsidiaries  
 16,408,408.03   223,709.40   -     -    
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Guangxi Haishi and 
its subsidiaries   3,818,141.12   42,188.14   -     -    
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Xuzhou Kangbo  441,719.03   18,684.71   1,581,135.63  29,277.25  
Long-term 
receivables  
Xiaoyun Vision 
Technology  -     -     2,295.00   103.73  
Total    76,240,410.61   2,883,476.52   96,539,832.43  2,298,344.38  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Prepayments  Maxio Technology and 
its subsidiaries  49,300,000.00   -     -     -    
Prepayments  Subsidiaries of CETC   2,705,210.05   -     4,339,675.60   -    
Total   52,005,210.05   -     4,339,675.60   -    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 370 
(2) Payables to related parties 
Unit: RMB 
 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
Notes Payable Subsidiaries of CETC   40,579,368.55   17,301,547.82  
Notes Payable Shanghai Fullhan Micro and its subsidiaries  24,314,184.13   3,648,820.00  
Total    64,893,552.68   20,950,367.82  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
Contract liabilities Subsidiaries of CETC  3,446,311.89   10,507,934.92  
Contract liabilities Hangzhou Confirmware  960,682.66   -    
Contract liabilities Zhiguang Hailian and its 
subsidiaries  195,416.40   57,630.00  
Contract liabilities INESA and its subsidiaries  687.00   -    
Contract liabilities Xuzhou kangbo  -     201,887.56  
Contract liabilities Daishan Hailai  Not applicable 688.00 
Total    4,603,097.95   10,768,140.48  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
Other payables Subsidiaries of CETC  56,252,811.73   47,056,334.07  
Other payables Qingtang Big Data  9,310,000.00   -    
Other payables Shanghai Fullhan Micro and its 
subsidiaries  200,000.00   100,000.00  
Other payables Wuhu Sensor Tech and its 
subsidiaries  52,040.00   -    
Other payables Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng and 
its subsidiaries  50,000.00   -    
Other payables Haishi JiaAn  33,110.00   -    
Other payables Zhejiang City Digital 
Technology  10,000.00   -    
Other payables Zhiguang Hailian and its 
subsidiaries  2,000.00   -    
Total    65,909,961.73   47,156,334.07  
 
 
 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
Accounts payable Subsidiaries of CETC  570,856,498.41   360,026,227.41  
Accounts payable Shanghai Fullhan Micro and its 
subsidiaries 
 407,876,541.15   117,676,674.67  
Accounts payable Maxio Technology and its 
subsidiaries 
 72,307,405.55   545,124.36  
Accounts payable Wuhu Sensor Tech and its 
subsidiaries 
 4,968,239.42   6,286,164.42  
Accounts payable Aurotek Corporation and its 
subsidiaries 
 1,434,619.91  - 
Accounts payable Chengdu  Guoshengtianfeng  and 
its subsidiaries 
 22,641.51  - 
Total   1,057,465,945.95  484,534,190.86  
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 371 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Long-term payables (including 
those due within one year) Subsidiaries of CETC - 8,000,000.00 
Total   - 8,000,000.00 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Lease liabilities (including those 
due within one year) Subsidiaries of CETC  22,591,498.84   41,213,376.81  
Lease liabilities (including those 
due within one year) 
Shenzhen Urban Service and its 
subsidiaries  1,074,683.57   -    
Total    23,666,182.41   41,213,376.81  
 
XI. Share-based Payments 
 
1. Overview of Share-based Payments 
 
Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme  
According to the Approval of the Implementation of the Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. (关于杭州海康威视数字技术股份有限公司实施限制性股票激励计划的批复) (Guo Zi Fen Pei 
[2012] No. 426) issued by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council and 
the Opinion the Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (关于杭州海康
威视数字技术股份有限公司限制性股票激励计划的意见 ) (Shang Shi Bu Han [2012] No. 353) issued by China 
Securities Regulatory Commission, the Company convened the ninth meeting of the second session of the Board of 
Directors on July 25th 2012 and the first extraordinary general meeting for 2012 on August 13th 2012, whereat the Proposal 
Relating to the Restrictive Share Scheme (Amendments to th e Draft) of the Company and Highlights was reviewed and 
passed. The purpose of the Share Incentive Scheme is to: further improve the Company’s governance structure to establish 
a good and balanced value allocation system; establish a profit -sharing and restriction mechanism among shareholders, 
the Company and its employees, so as to provide shareholders with sustainable return; fully mobilize the positivity of core 
employees to support the Company in realizing its strategies and long -term sustainable development; attract and retain 
core employees to ensure the Company’s long-term development. 
 
The Scheme shall be effective for a term of 10 years commencing from the date of approval by general meeting of the 
Company, during which the Company may grant restricted shares to grantees under the Scheme. In principle, each grant 
should be at an interval of two years. After the expiry of the Scheme, no restricted shares could be granted to grantees 
under the Scheme. However, all the provisions of the Scheme remain va lid to the restricted shares granted under the 
Scheme. 
 
Each batch of restricted shares shall not be unlocked unless fulfilling, each time, by the Company its unlock performance 
criteria (including net asset yield and operating income growth rate), and by grantees’ individual performance criteria 
simultaneously. Where, during the unlocking period, any one or more unlock criteria for the Company or individuals is or 
are not fulfilled, such portion of subject shares shall be cancelled. The cancelled restricted shares will be repurchased by 
the Company based on the grant price. 
 
On December 23 rd 2016, after consideration and approval by the general  meeting, the Company granted 52,326,858 
restricted shares to grantees at a grant price of RMB 12.63 per share (“2016 Share Incentive Scheme”). The Lock -up 
Period of the Subject Shares shall last for a period of 24 months commencing on the grant date, during which the Subject 
Shares granted to grantees under the scheme shall be subject to lock-up and shall not be transferable. The Unlocking Period 
shall be the 24 to 60 months following the grant of restricted shares (including Lock -up Period), during which grantees 
may, subject to unlocking conditions stipulated by the scheme being satisfied, apply for unlocking in 3 tranches: the first 
unlocking period shall be the 24 to 36 months following the grant date and the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 
40% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted; the second unlocking period shall be the 36 to 48 months 
following the grant date and the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate number of the Subject 
Shares granted; the third unlocking period shall be the 48 to 60 months following the grant date and the number of shares 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 372 
to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted. As of December 31st 2020, all restricted 
shares awarded in 2016 have been closed. 
 
On December 20 th 2018, authorized by the 2 nd extraordinary general meeting of 2018 and reviewed by the Board of 
Directors, the Company granted 121,195,458 restricted shares to grantees at a grant price of RMB 16.98 per share (“2018 
Share Incentive Scheme”). The Lock-up Period of the Subject Shares shall last for a period of 24 months commencing on 
the grant date, during which the Subject Shares granted to grantees under the scheme shall be subject to lock -up and are 
not transferable. The Unlocking Per iod shall be the 24 to 60 months following the grant of restricted shares (including 
Lock-up Period), during which grantees may, subject to unlocking conditions stipulated by the scheme being satisfied, 
apply for unlocking in 3 tranches: the first unlocking period shall be the 24 to 36 months following the grant date and the 
number of shares to be unlocked shall be 40% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted; the second unlocking 
period shall be the 36 to 48 months following the grant date and the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the 
aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted; the third unlocking period shall be the 48 to 60 months following the 
grant date and the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted. 
The Company has completed the equity registration work in January 2019. 
 
Unit: share 
2016 Share Incentive Scheme 2021 2020 
Total of equity instruments outstanding at the beginning of the reporting 
period - 21,974,740 
Total of equity instruments granted during the current reporting period - - 
Total of equity instruments vested during the current reporting period - 21,204,645 
Total of equity instruments forfeited during the current reporting period 
(Note) - 770,095 
Total of equity instruments outstanding at the end of the reporting period  - - 
The exercise price (ex -rights) of the outstanding Share -based payments 
of the Company at the end of the reporting period and the remaining 
period of the contract  
- - 
Note: On December 25th 2020, pursuant to the revised Articles of Association and resolution of the 20th geneal meeting of 
4th session of the Board, and approved by the second extraordinary general meeting of 2018, the Company repurchased 
and cancelled 770,095 gr anted and unvested restricted RMB treasury shares in cash. The Company has completed the 
registration procedures of equity changes as of July 2nd 2021. 
 
Unit: share 
2018 Share Incentive Scheme 2021 2020 
Total of equity instruments outstanding at the beginning of the 
reporting period 68,762,683 121,195,458 
Total of equity instruments granted (share dividend) during the current 
reporting period - - 
Total of equity instruments vested during the current reporting period - 45,591,794 
Total of equity instruments forfeited during the current reporting 
period (Note) - 6,840,981 
Total of equity instruments outstanding at the end of the reporting 
period 68,762,683 68,762,683 
The exercise price (ex-rights) of the outstanding Share-based payments 
of the Company at the end of the reporting period and the remaining 
period of the contract 
RMB 16.98/share & 24 months  RMB 16.98/share & 36 months 
 
Note: On December 25 th 2020, authorized by the Company's second extraordinary shareholders' meeting in 2018 and 
according to the resolutions and the revised Articles of Association of the 20th meeting of the 4th session of the Board of 
Directors, the Company repurchased and cancelled the granted and unvested 6,840,981 restricted RMB treasury shares in 
cash. The Company has completed the registration procedures of equity changes as of July 2nd 2021.  
 
 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 373 
Share Incentive Scheme of Staff Co-Investment in Innovative Businesses 
 
On October 22 nd 2015, Hikvision considered and approved Management Measures for Core Staff Co -Investment in 
Innovative Businesses (Draft) (hereafter referred to as “Management Measures”) at the 2nd extraordinary general meeting. 
On March 7 th 2016, representative congress of labor union of Hikvision passed Implementation  Provisions for 
Management Measures for Core Staff Investment in Innovative Businesses (hereafter referred to as “Provisions”), to initiate 
and implement the incentive mechanis m of staff co -investment (hereafter referred to as “Staff Co-Investment Plan”) in 
innovative business subsidiaries. Staff who participate in the Staff Co -Investment Plan (hereafter referred to as “Co-
Investment Staff”) signed an Entrusted Investment Agreement with the labor union committee of Hikvision (hereafter 
referred to as “Hikvision Labor Union”), to entrust Hikvision Labor Union to make investments. Hikvision Labor Union, 
as a principal, shall cooperate with a trust company, which shall be a limited partner (LP) of a partnership enterprise, to 
establish a trust plan, and to invest trust funds into innovative business subsidiaries. (Investment form described above is 
referred to as “Co-Investment Platform”). 
 
Staff Investment Plan is classified as plan A and plan B according to applicable grantees. Grantees of plan A are comprised 
of medium -and-senior level management personnel and core competent staff from Hikvision, its wholly -owned 
subsidiaries, and innovative business subsidiaries, and are able to invest in all innovative businesses. Grantees of plan B 
are comprised of core and full -time staff from innovative business subsidiaries, and could participate in investment on 
innovative business subsidiaries where they serve. The Co -Investment Platform wil l increase capitals annually, the 
corresponding increased equity of which will be distributed to core staff who meets investment conditions pursuant to 
particular rules. The lock-up period shall be five years after equity of Co-Investment Platform is held by the staff, which 
will be unlocked in one -off manner when due. Within the lock -up period, if the labor relationship between the grantees 
and the Company or its subsidiaries is released or terminated, equity of Co-Investment Platform held by the grantees shall 
be refunded and settled by the labor union at an agreed price pursuant to the Provisions. 
 
The Co-Investment Platform grants Co-Investment Staff additional equity annually. The Group determines whether share-
based payment shall be constituted based on the fair value of equity instruments newly obtained by the Group ’s staff in 
Co-Investment Platform on each granting date. During the current reporting period, the Group recognized share -based 
payment expenses of RMB 221,463,007.99 in aggregate based on the fair value of services obtained by the Group. 
 
2. Information of the Share-based Payment through Equity Settlements 
 
Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme  
Unit: RMB 
 2016 Share Incentive Scheme 2018 Share Incentive Scheme 
Method of determine the fair value of equity 
instruments at the grant date 
Determined based on stock price at the 
grant date and the costs of restricted 
shares during Lock-up Period 
Determined based on stock price at the 
grant date and the costs of restricted 
shares during Lock-up Period 
Recognition basis of the number of the equity 
instruments qualified for vesting 
Determined based on the results 
estimation of each vesting period 
Determined based on the results 
estimation of each vesting period 
Reasons of the significant difference between the 
estimates of the current reporting period with that of 
the prior year 
None  
 
None 
Accumulative amount of share-based payment 
through equity settlement and further included in the 
capital reserve 
345,213,163.42 1,000,614,626.81 
Total amount of the expenses recognized according to 
share-based payment through equity settlement in the 
current reporting period 
- 147,866,242.12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 374 
Share Incentive Scheme of Staff Co-Investment in Innovative Businesses 
Unit：RMB 
 Share Incentive Scheme of Staff Co-Investment in 
Innovative Businesses 
Method of determining the fair value of equity instruments at the grant date Evaluated and determined based on income method at the 
grant date 
Recognition basis of the number of the equity instruments qualified for 
vesting 
Estimated and determined based on the performance result 
conditions of each vesting period 
Accumulative amount of share-based payment through equity settlement and 
further included in the capital reserve 316,479,067.19 
Total amount of the expenses recognized according to share -based payment 
through equity settlement in the current reporting period 221,463,007.99 
 
Among total amount of the expenses recognized according to share -based payment through equity settlement during the 
current reporting period, amount of RMB 21,602,201.66 was due to share distributions to minority s hareholders; As of 
December 31st 2021, accumulative amount of share-based payment through equity settlement of RMB 57,237,201.85 was 
included in the equity of minority shareholders. 
 
3. There is no share-based payment through cash settlements 
 
4. There is no modification or termination of share-based payment during the current reporting period.  
 
XII. Commitments and Contingencies 
 
1. Significant Commitments 
 
(1) Capital commitments 
Unit: RMB’000  
  Closing balance Opening balance 
Contracted but not yet recognized in financial statements   
- Commitment on construction of long-term assets 11,659,026 9,573,577 
- Commitment on external investments 34,500 42,400 
Total 11,693,526 9,615,977 
 
2. Contingencies 
 
The Group has no significant contingencies to be disclosed. 
 
XIII. Events after the Balance Sheet Date 
 
1. Significant Unadjusted Events 
 
Restricted Share Incentive Scheme 
On January 18th 2022, according to the first extraordinary general meeting of shareholders in 2022, after consideration and 
approval by the Board of Directors, the Company granted 99,417,229 restricted shares to grantees at a grant price of RMB 
29.71 per share. The Lock-up Period of the Subject Shares shall last for a period of 24 months commencing on the grant 
date, during which the Subject Shares granted to grantees under the scheme shall be subject to lock -up and shall not be 
transferable. The Unlocking Period shall be the 24 to 60 months following the grant of restricted shares (including Lock-
up Period), during which grantees may, subject to unlocking conditions stipulated by the scheme being satisfied, apply for 
unlocking in 3 tranches: the first unlocking period shall be the 24 to 36 months following the grant date and the number 
of shares to be unlocked shall be 40% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted; the second unlocking period 
                                                   Hikvision 2021Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
 375 
shall be the 36 to 48 months following the grant date and the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate 
number of the Subject Shares granted; the third unlocking period shall be the 48 to 60 months following the grant date and 
the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted. The Company 
completed the equity registration in February 2022. 
 
 
2. Profit Distribution 
 
Pursuant to the proposal of the 9th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Directors on April 14th 2022, the Company 
proposed to distribute cash dividend of RMB 9 (tax inclusive) per each 10 shares to all shareholders. The above dividend 
distribution plan is still subject to the approval of the general meeting of shareholders. 
 
 
XIV. Other Significant Events 
 
1. Segment Information  
 
1.1 Report segment determining and accounting policy 
 
According to the Group's internal organization structure, management requirements and internal report principles, the 
Group has only one operating segment, which is the research and development, production and sales of AIoT products and 
services. 
 
1.2 Segment financial reporting 
 
External revenue by geographical area & non-current assets by geographical location 
 Unit: RMB 
Item 2021 2020 
External revenue generated in domestic area 59,434,989,705.17 45,806,567,913.73 
External revenue generated in overseas area 21,985,063,834.10 17,696,882,978.05 
Total 81,420,053,539.27 63,503,450,891.78 
 
 Unit: RMB 
Item (Note) On December 31st 2021 On January 1st 2021 
Non-current assets in domestic area 13,823,326,864.88 9,202,175,652.66 
Non-current assets in overseas area 777,156,474.79 454,684,509.48 
Total 14,600,483,339.67 9,656,860,162.14 
 
Note: the non-current assets above did not include other non-current financial assets, long-term receivables, long-term  
equity investment, and deferred tax assets. 
                                                                                                         Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to June 30th 2021 
 
 
 376 
XV. Notes to Major Items of Financial Statements of the Parent Company 
1. Accounts Receivable 
 
1.1 Disclosure by age 
Unit: RMB 
Aging 
Closing Balance 
Accounts receivable Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Within credit period 8,936,084,715.17  25,327,231.42  0.28 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period  14,489,234,463.94   92,968,853.56  0.64 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period  514,871,132.91   102,072,248.63  19.82 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period  225,519,710.96   95,892,762.79  42.52 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  93,895,841.82   65,226,696.98  69.47 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  107,141,106.30   107,141,106.30  100.00 
Subtotal 24,366,746,971.10 488,628,899.68 2.01 
 
1.2 Classification and disclosure of by credit loss provision methods 
Unit: RMB  
Category 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Book value Carrying balance Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount 
Provision 
for credit 
loss on a 
single basis 
- - - - - - - - - - 
Provision 
for credit 
loss by 
portfolios 
24,366,746,971.10 100.00  488,628,899.68 2.01 23,878,118,071.42 24,550,291,739.99 100.00 356,899,560.63 1.45 24,193,392,179.36 
Total 24,366,746,971.10 100.00  488,628,899.68 2.01 23,878,118,071.42 24,550,291,739.99 100.00 356,899,560.63 1.45 24,193,392,179.36 
 
Accounts receivable provision for credit loss by portfolios  
                                                                                                         Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to June 30th 2021 
 
 
 377 
Unit: RMB 
Customer 
Closing balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Subsidiaries’ customers 20,638,547,619.01 - - 
Portfolio A 669,111.20 183,382.38 27.41 
Portfolio B 3,727,329,323.46 488,244,599.87 13.10 
Portfolio C 200,917.43 200,917.43 100.00 
Total  24,366,746,971.10 488,628,899.68 2.01 
 
Description of accounts receivable for credit loss provision by portfolios 
  
As part of the Company's credit risk management, the Company uses the ageing of accounts receivable to assess the expected credit losses of accounts receivable formed by domestic and 
overseas sales businesses, and the risk characteristics are divided according to different business area and target into portfolio A, portfolio B and portfolio C. For the accounts receivable 
generated by the Group’s related parties, because the payment time is arranged by the Group according to the cash flow of the companies in the Group , the Company believes that the 
credit risk is low and no provision for credit loss is required. The aging information can reflect the solvency of these three types of customers when the accounts receivable are due. 
 
1.3 Credit loss provision 
 
The provision for credit loss in the current reporting period is RMB 141,724,671.73. 
 
The actual write-off of accounts receivable for the current reporting period is RMB 11,090,513.58, and RMB 1,095,180.90 is recovered after write-off.. 
 
 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
378 
1.4 Top five debtors based on corresponding closing balance of accounts receivable 
Unit: RMB 
Name of the Party Relationship with the Company Book value balance of accounts receivable Closing balance for credit loss provision 
Proportion (%) of 
the total balance 
of accounts 
receivable at the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Subsidiary A Subsidiary  20,569,980,734.09 - 84.42 
CETC’s subsidiary 
company A Related party  116,346,635.88   24,526,386.65   0.48  
Third party J Third party  103,678,553.16   4,384,276.62   0.43  
Third party K Third party  47,227,654.27   1,172,554.78   0.19  
Third party L Third party  45,281,235.64   3,970,652.08   0.19  
Total    20,882,514,813.04    34,053,870.13   85.71  
  
1.5 As of December 31st 2021, there is no termination of accounts receivable booking due to transfer of a financial asset.  
 
1.6 As of December 31st 2021, the Company has no assets/liabilities booked due to transferred accounts receivable that the Company still continue to be involved in. 
 
2. Other Receivables 
 
2.1 By categories 
Unit：RMB 
Category Closing balance Opening Balance 
Dividends receivable 22,910,404.14 22,910,404.14 
Other receivables  1,491,231,959.91 703,792,729.51 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
379 
Category Closing balance Opening Balance 
Total  1,514,142,364.05 726,703,133.65 
 
2.2 Dividends receivable 
Unit：RMB 
Investees Closing balance Opening Balance 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision 22,910,404.14 22,910,404.14 
Total 22,910,404.14 22,910,404.14 
 
2.3 other receivables  
(1) Other receivables by aging  
 Unit: RMB  
Item  
Closing Balance 
Other receivables Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Within contract period  1,480,835,960.26 1,000,125.48 0.07 
Within 1 year  10,346,083.28 437,322.07 4.23 
1-2 years  955,013.17 173,633.46 18.18 
2-3 years 1,186,026.50 488,761.52 41.21 
3-4 years 28,300.00 19,580.77 69.19 
Over 4 years 1,135,465.04 1,135,465.04 100.00 
Subtotal 1,494,486,848.25 3,254,888.34 0.22 
 
 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
380 
(2) Other receivables by nature of the payment 
Unit: RMB 
Nature Closing balance Opening balance 
Payments by related parties within the Group 1,365,117,094.96 454,474,087.76 
Temporary payments for receivables 61,128,645.72 219,103,746.42 
Guarantee deposit 60,966,840.82 47,835,041.47 
Others 7,274,266.75 3,797,396.93 
Total 1,494,486,848.25 725,210,272.58 
 
(3) Provision for credit losses 
The amount of credit loss provision recovered in the current period was RMB 18,162,654.73. 
 
(4) The actual write-off of other receivables in the current reporting period was nil. 
 
(5) Top 5 debtors of other receivables in terms of closing balance  
Unit：RMB 
The name of entity Relationship with the 
Company Nature Closing balance Aging Percentage to total other 
receivables (%) 
Closing balance for 
credit loss provision 
Subsidiary B Subsidiary Internal Payment  607,297,582.50 Within contract 
period 40.64 - 
Subsidiary C Subsidiary Internal Payment  149,859,672.76 Within contract 
period 10.03 - 
Subsidiary D Subsidiary Internal Payment  134,839,322.43 Within contract 
period 9.02 - 
Subsidiary E Subsidiary Internal Payment  67,617,485.89 Within contract 
period 4.52 - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
381 
The name of entity Relationship with the 
Company Nature Closing balance Aging Percentage to total other 
receivables (%) 
Closing balance for 
credit loss provision 
Subsidiary F Subsidiary Internal Payment  54,423,585.97 Within contract 
period 3.64 - 
Total   1,014,037,649.55  67.85 - 
 
(6) At the end of the current reporting period, the Company had no other receivables involving government subsidies. 
 
(7) At the end of the current reporting period, there were no other receivables derecognized due to the transfer of financial assets. 
 
(8) At the end of the current reporting period, there were no assets or liabilities formed by continuing involvement in transferred other receivables. 
 
3. Long-term Equity Investment 
Unit: RMB 
Item  
Closing Balance Opening Balance 
Carrying Balance Provisions Book Value Carrying Balance Provisions Book Value 
Investment in subsidiaries 6,870,285,292.68 - 6,870,285,292.68 5,912,831,208.01 - 5,912,831,208.01 
Investments in associated enterprises 
and joint ventures 
915,631,339.20 - 915,631,339.20 814,542,245.96 - 814,542,245.96 
Total  7,785,916,631.88 - 7,785,916,631.88 6,727,373,453.97 - 6,727,373,453.97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
382 
3.1 Investment in subsidiaries 
Unit：RMB 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Hangzhou Hikvision System Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
848,272,492.62  12,239,987.55  - 860,512,480.17 - - 
Hangzhou Hikvision Security Equipment 
Leasing Services Co., Ltd. 
200,000,000.00  - - 200,000,000.00 - - 
Shanghai Goldway Intelligent Transportation 
System Co., Ltd. 
23,000,000.00  - - 23,000,000.00 - - 
Chongqing Hikvision System Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
700,000,000.00  167,518.60 - 700,167,518.60 - - 
Hundure Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 37,247,790.28  - 37,247,790.28  - - - 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. 61,742,747.98  1,500,903.88 - 63,243,651.86 - - 
Hangzhou Haikang Zhicheng Investment and 
Development Co., Ltd. 
24,000,000.00  - - 24,000,000.00 - - 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. 138,957,632.99  3,434,654.51 - 142,392,287.50 - - 
Hangzhou Auto Technology  186,488,555.60  782,202.37 - 187,270,757.97 - - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
383 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Hangzhou Hikvision Communication 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
7,000,000.00  - - 7,000,000.00 - - 
Hangzhou Microimage Sensing  182,201,437.54  417,723.87 - 182,619,161.41 - - 
HDT INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 87,786.14  - - 87,786.14 - - 
Prama Hikvision India PVT 1,585,696.80  - - 1,585,696.80 - - 
Hikvision International Co., Limited 79,423.52  - - 79,423.52 - - 
Hikvision Australia  2,866,850.00  - - 2,866,850.00 - - 
Hikvision Singapore  1,900,590.00  - - 1,900,590.00 - - 
Hikvision South Africa  1,578,650.00  - - 1,578,650.00 - - 
Hikvision FZE 1,870,351.40  - - 1,870,351.40 - - 
HIKVISION DO BRASIL 4,579,750.50  - - 4,579,750.50 - - 
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY 647,249.19  - - 647,249.19 - - 
Hikvision Coop. 65,485.53  - - 65,485.53 - - 
Hikvision Korea Limited 1,535,850.00  - - 1,535,850.00 - - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
384 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Hikvision Colombia SAS 1,337,440.00  - - 1,337,440.00 - - 
HIKVISION KAZAKHSTAN LIMI 4,758.69  - - 4,758.69 - - 
HIKVISION TURKEY TECHNOLO 1,148,115.83  - - 1,148,115.83 - - 
Chongqing Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd.  102,318,598.74  437,957.57 - 102,756,556.31 - - 
HIKVISION USA INC. 1,546,160.00  - - 1,546,160.00 - - 
Hikvision Canada Inc 994,442.54  - - 994,442.54 - - 
Henan Hua’An Bao Quan Intelligent 
Development Co., Ltd. 
98,334,200.00  - - 98,334,200.00 - - 
Henan Haikang Hua’An Bao Quan 
Electronics Co., Ltd. 
33,940,800.00  - -  33,940,800.00 - - 
Hangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. 1,066,917,232.70   7,129,722.90 -  1,074,046,955.60 - - 
Hangzhou Hikvision Electronics Co., Ltd.  411,410,425.15   15,280,878.75 -  426,691,303.90 - - 
Wuhan Hikstorage 60,869,464.15  - -  60,869,464.15 - - 
Chengdu Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 540,086,104.32   194,989.56 -  540,281,093.88 - - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
385 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Ltd.  
Hangzhou Auto Software 14,536,174.60   2,038,154.06 -  16,574,328.66 - - 
Hangzhou Haikang Intelligent Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
8,689,143.96 1,510,998.55 - 10,200,142.51 - - 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Software Co., Ltd. 35,084,155.82   5,020,897.29 -  40,105,053.11 - - 
Hangzhou Hikstorage  2,843,875.79 637,380.59 -  3,481,256.38 - - 
HIKVISION TASHKENT 833,014.00 - -  833,014.00 - - 
Xi’An Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
85,000,000.00 115,000,000.00 -  200,000,000.00 - - 
Wuhan Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. 12,600,000.00 187,400,000.00 -  200,000,000.00 - - 
Wuhan Hikvision Science and Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
150,250,000.00 33,002,487.50 -  183,252,487.50 - - 
Hangzhou Hikimaging Technology Co., Ltd. 50,948,433.82 561,393.63 -  51,509,827.45 - - 
Guizhou Haikang Transportation Big Data 
Co., Ltd. 
22,000,000.00 22,000,000.00 -  44,000,000.00 - - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
386 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Xinjiang CET Yihai Information Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
24,000,000.00 - -  24,000,000.00 - - 
Nanjing Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
80,000,000.00 - -  80,000,000.00 - - 
Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Co., Ltd. 112,000,000.00 - -  112,000,000.00 - - 
Zhengzhou Hikvision Digital Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
65,000,000.00 15,000,000.00 -  80,000,000.00 - - 
Nanchang Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
80,000,000.00 - -  80,000,000.00 - - 
Hikvision Digital Technology (Shanghai) Co., 
Ltd. 
80,000,000.00 - -  80,000,000.00 - - 
Hefei Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.  35,000,000.00 45,000,000.00 -  80,000,000.00 - - 
Tianjin Hikvision Information Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
50,348,846.40 509,239.06 -  50,858,085.46 - - 
Zhejiang Hikvision City Service Co., Ltd. 35,000,000.00 - -  35,000,000.00 - - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
387 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Hikvision Peru Closed Stock Company 1,598,042.50 - -  1,598,042.50 - - 
Shijiazhuang Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd.  45,000,000.00 5,897,589.14 - 50,897,589.14 - - 
Zhejiang Haikang Fire Protection and Control 
Co., Ltd. 
 84,004.82 60,763.40 - 144,768.22  - - 
Hikvision Argentina S.R.L  1,793,559.15 - - 1,793,559.15  - - 
Fuzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd.  
 50,814,676.49 329,895.30 - 51,144,571.79  - - 
Hangzhou Hikfire  61,871,362.21 710,145.93 - 62,581,508.14  - - 
Hangzhou Rayin Technology  60,702,536.80 349,581.59 - 61,052,118.39  - - 
Hangzhou Microimage Software  2,090,633.38 1,425,368.56 - 3,516,001.94  - - 
Kunming Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
 126,666.06 50,174,365.52 - 50,301,031.58  - - 
Jinan Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. - 51,433,533.78 - 51,433,533.78  - - 
Hanghou Hikmicro Intelligent Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
- 52,154.57 - 52,154.57  - - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
388 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during the current 
reporting period 
Decrease 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Write-off 
of 
impairment 
provision 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
HIKVISION WEST AFRICA LIMITED - 101,941.96 - 101,941.96  - - 
Daishan Hailai  14,899,444.96   14,899,444.96  - - 
Haina Yuzhi Fund - 400,000,000.00 - 400,000,000.00  - - 
Total 5,912,831,208.01 994,701,874.95 37,247,790.28 6,870,285,292.68 - - 
 
3.2 Investments in associated enterprises and joint ventures 
Unit：RMB 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/Decrease during the current reporting period 
Closing Balance 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Additional 
Investments 
Reduced 
Investments 
Investment 
income (losses) 
recognized under 
the equity method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
1.Joint Ventures 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
389 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/Decrease during the current reporting period 
Closing Balance 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Additional 
Investments 
Reduced 
Investments 
Investment 
income (losses) 
recognized under 
the equity method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
Daishan 
Hailai  
15,253,091.76  - - 645,353.20  - (999,000.00) - (14,899,444.96) - - 
Hangzhou 
Haikang 
Intelligent 
Industrial 
Equity 
Investment 
Fund 
Partnership 
(L.P.) 
612,479,371.62 - - 89,889,968.33 - - - - 702,369,339.95 - 
Zhejiang 
Haishi 
Huayue 
Digital 
Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
9,985,577.32 - - 1,944,935.34 - - - - 11,930,512.66 - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
390 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/Decrease during the current reporting period 
Closing Balance 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Additional 
Investments 
Reduced 
Investments 
Investment 
income (losses) 
recognized under 
the equity method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
Xuzhou 
Kangbo City 
Operation 
Management 
Service Co., 
Ltd. 
4,631,286.58 4,900,000.00  - (298,084.91) - - - - 9,233,201.67 
- 
Shenzhen 
Hikvision 
Urban 
Service 
Operation 
Co., Ltd. 
6,029,569.69 - - (4,764,911.31) - - - - 1,264,658.38 
- 
Yunnan 
Yinghai 
Parking 
Service Co., 
Ltd. 
4,841,060.76 - - (282,179.67) - - - - 4,558,881.09 
- 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
391 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/Decrease during the current reporting period 
Closing Balance 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Additional 
Investments 
Reduced 
Investments 
Investment 
income (losses) 
recognized under 
the equity method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
Zhejiang 
City Digital 
Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
11,864,018.37 - - 350,301.92 - - - - 12,214,320.29 
- 
Guangxi 
Haishi City 
Operation 
Management 
Co., Ltd. 
5,296,695.36 3,000,000.00  - (3,664,494.77) - - - - 4,632,200.59 - 
Subtotal  670,380,671.46 7,900,000.00 - 83,820,888.13 - (999,000.00)  (14,899,444.96) 746,203,114.63 - 
2.Associated Enterprises 
Wuhu 
Sensor Tech  
58,491,264.42 - - 16,975,212.42 - - - - 75,466,476.84 - 
Maxio 
Technology  
54,621,802.54 - - 8,105,646.99 - - - - 62,727,449.53 - 
Zhiguang 21,253,058.87 - - 32,784.40 - - - - 21,285,843.27 - 
                                                                                    Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
 
392 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/Decrease during the current reporting period 
Closing Balance 
Balance of 
impairment 
loss 
provision 
at the end 
of the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Additional 
Investments 
Reduced 
Investments 
Investment 
income (losses) 
recognized under 
the equity method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
Hailian  
Qingtang 
Big Data  
9,795,448.67 - - 153,006.26 - - - - 9,948,454.93 - 
Subtotal  144,161,574.50 - - 25,266,650.07 - - - - 169,428,224.57 - 
Total  814,542,245.96 7,900,000.00 - 109,087,538.20 - (999,000.00) - (14,899,444.96) 915,631,339.20 - 
 
Note: The original joint venture of the Company, Daishan Hailai, was converted from the equity method to the cost method for accounting. For details, please refer to Note 
VI (1). 
 
3.3 As of December 31st 2021, there were no restrictions on the capability of transferring fund to the Company from investees in which the Company held long-term 
equity investment. 
 
 
 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
393 
4. Operating Income and Operating Cost 
Unit：RMB 
Item 
2021 2020 
Income Cost Income Cost 
Operating income 24,756,059,967.30 5,102,605,625.81 24,051,359,607.67 7,010,347,837.77 
Other operating 
income 3,316,533,294.57 138,183,248.51 2,260,627,739.73 167,059,377.68 
Total 28,072,593,261.87 5,240,788,874.32 26,311,987,347.40 7,177,407,215.45 
 
5. Investment Income 
Unit：RMB 
Item 2021 2020 
Long-term equity investment income (losses) calculated by cost 
method 16,316,000.00 80,360,404.14 
Long-term equity investment income measured by equity 
method 109,087,538.20 13,424,897.92 
Investment losses from disposal of long-term equity investments  (3,387,647.37) (2,215.23) 
Investment income of other non-current financial assets during 
the holding period  115,644,801.97 150,000,000.00 
Investment income (losses) from disposal of held of trading 
financial assets (461,953.09) 3,552,279.56 
Investment income from disposal of asset group - 848,151,116.16 
Total  237,198,739.71 1,095,486,482.55 
 
6. Related Party Transactions 
 
6.1 Sales and purchase of goods, provision of services and receiving services 
 
Purchase of goods/receiving of services: 
Unit：RMB 
Related party Transaction type 2021 2020 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision (Note) Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 6,136,340,294.33 7,995,299,074.64 
Subsidiaries of CETC Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 23,888,681.71 11,773,724.55 
Maxio Technology and its 
subsidiaries 
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 36,783,800.00 7,875,600.00 
Aurotek Corporation and its 
subsidiaries 
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services  1,787,764.68  - 
Wuhu Sensor Tech and its 
subsidiaries 
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services - 1,000.00 
Total  6,198,800,540.72 8,014,949,399.19 
 
Note: Subsidiaries of Hikvision are subsidiaries of the Company. See Note (VII) for details. 
 
 
 
 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
394 
Sales of goods/rendering of services: 
Unit：RMB 
Related party Transaction type 2021 2020 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision  Sales of products and 
rendering of services 22,294,952,493.31 18,507,772,746.27 
Haishi JiaAn Sales of products and 
rendering of services 20,696,334.95 - 
Subsidiaries of CETC 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
20,263,330.33 71,968,472.76 
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng and 
its subsidiaries 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
7,006,078.70 - 
Shenzhen Urban Service and its 
subsidiaries  
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
905,309.73 13,868.14 
Guangxi Haishi and its 
subsidiaries  
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
578,334.10 1,769,911.50 
Haishi Huayue 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
516,471.00 263,634.07 
Wuhu Sensor Tech Service and its 
subsidiaries  
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
13,008.86 1,150.44 
Zhiguang Hailian and its 
subsidiaries 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
- 2,191,071.97 
Xiaoyun Vision Technology 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
- 2,629,911.49 
Qingtang Big Data 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
- 7,092.92 
Total   22,344,931,360.98 18,586,617,859.56 
 
Statement of capital deposits:  
Unit: RMB 
Related Party (Note) 
Content of related 
party transaction 
Amount occurred 
during the current 
reporting period 
Closing balance at 
the end of the current 
reporting period 
Amount occurred 
during the prior 
reporting period 
Opening Balance at 
the beginning of the 
current reporting 
period 
Subsidiaries of CETC 
Deposit into current 
deposits 
500,006,734.20 500,006,734.20 - - 
Subsidiaries of CETC  
Deposit into fixed 
deposits 
- 4,000,000,000.00 - 4,000,000,000.00 
Total   500,006,734.20 4,500,006,734.20 - 4,000,000,000.00 
 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
395 
Note: For the deposit that the Company deposited into China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd., the deposit 
interest income was RMB 80,001,932.23. 
 
Those transactions above were executed at market prices or at the prices agreed by both parties. 
 
6.2 Guarantees with related parties 
 
In the current reporting period, the Company has provided guarantees for its 27 wholly-owned and majority-owned 
subsidiaries in an amount not exceeding an equivalent of RMB 16.10 billion (2020：RMB 32.80 billion), including 
the joint liability guarantee for the payment obligations on purchase from suppliers in an amount not exceeding an 
equivalent of RMB 370 million (2020: RMB 3.125 billion), and the joint liability guarantee for the general credit 
limit applied from commercial banks and other financial institutions or other financing methods through agreed 
methods in an amount not exceeding an equivalent of RMB 15.73 billion (2020: RMB 29.67 billion). 
 
For details of the Company's guarantees on Safety Chongqing project, please refer to Note X (5). 
 
6.3 Funding from related parties 
 
In April 2021, the Company proposes to provide amounts of no more than RMB 500 million, RMB 500 million, 
RMB 200 million, RMB 100 million and RMB 50 million to five innovative business holding subsidiaries, namely 
Wuhan Hikstorage, Hangzhou Auto Technology, Hangzhou Hikfire, Hangzhou Rayin Technology and Hangzhou 
Hikimaging Technology, respectively. It is used to supplement the operating capital needs of each innovative 
business holding subsidiary. The actual amount of funds will be provided based on the actual business needs of each 
innovative business holding subsidiary. The period of financial funds will take effect during 3 years after the date 
of approval by the general meeting of the Company (May 14th 2021), during which the limit (balance) can be utilized 
in circulation by batches. The annual borrowing rate of financial assistance shall be negotiated and determined by 
both parties to the agreement without violating relevant laws and regulations.  The interest rate is determined 
according to the principle of marketization, and th e specific contract shall prevail. The method of repayment is to 
repay the principal and interest in one lump sum upon maturity. 
 
In July 2020, the Company provided financial assistance of no more than RMB 1,000 million to Hangzhou Robotic 
Technology, an innovative business subsidiary. The specific assistance amount will be provided according to actual 
business needs. The valid financial assistance period is 3 years from the date of deliberation and approval at the 18th 
meeting of the 4th session of the Board of Directors of the Company (July 24th 2020), during which the limit (balance) 
can be utilized in circulation by batches. The annual borrowing rate of financial assistance shall be negotiated and 
determined by both parties to the agreem ent without violating relevant laws and regulations.  The interest rate is 
determined according to the principle of marketization, and the specific contract shall prevail. The method of 
repayment is to repay the principal and interest in one lump sum upon maturity. 
 
In April 2020, the Company provided no more than RMB 300 million, RMB 50 million RMB 100 million and RMB 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
396 
500 million to the four holding subsidiaries of Hangzho u Auto Technology, Hangzhou Hiks torage, Hangzhou 
HikFire and Hangzhou Microimage Sensing respectively. The specific assistance amount will be provided according 
to actual business needs. The period of financial funds will take effect during 3 years after the date of approval by 
the general meeting of the Company (May 15th 2020), during which the limit (balance) can be utilized in circulation 
by batches. The annual borrowing rate of financial assistance shall be negotiated and determined by both parties to 
the agreement without violating relevant laws and regulations.  The interest rate is determined according to the 
principle of marketization, and the specific contract shall prevail. The method of repayment is to repay the principal 
and interest in one lump sum upon maturity. 
 
7. Receivables from Related Parties and Payables to Related Parties 
 
7.1 Receivables from related parties 
Unit：RMB 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Accounts 
receivable 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision 20,638,547,619.01 - 20,623,636,081.76 - 
Accounts 
receivable 
Subsidiaries of CETC 232,683,754.63 59,533,322.73 224,340,023.89 28,804,106.29 
Accounts 
receivable 
Xiaoyun Vision 
Technology 
7,937,469.72 1,067,451.69 9,522,614.22 349,200.54 
Accounts 
receivable 
Chengdu 
Guoshengtianfeng and its 
subsidiaries 
2,504,232.29 23,633.21 - - 
Accounts 
receivable 
Haishi JiaAn 2,784,000.00 24,220.80 - - 
Accounts 
receivable 
Zhiguang Hailian and its 
subsidiaries  
- - 7,074.00 83.47 
Accounts 
receivable 
Wuhu Sensor Tech and its 
subsidiaries   
- - 1,300.00 58.76 
Total  20,884,457,075.65 60,648,628.43 20,857,507,093.87 29,153,449.06 
 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Notes 
receivable 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision 37,441,937.40 - - - 
Notes 
receivable 
Subsidiaries of CETC  12,417,231.80  - 15,740,985.15 - 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
397 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Total  49,859,169.20 - 15,740,985.15 - 
 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Other 
receivables  
Subsidiaries of Hikvision 1,365,117,094.96 - 454,474,087.76  - 
Other 
receivables  
Subsidiaries of CETC 145,000.00 6,133.50 145,000.00 1,711.00 
Other 
receivables  
Haishi Huayue  104,182.74 906.39 279,452.11 3,297.53 
Total  1,365,366,277.70 7,039.89 454,898,539.87 5,008.53 
 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Prepayments Subsidiaries of Hikvision 3,274,287.66 - 3,646,828.69  - 
Prepayments 
Maxio technology and its 
subsidiaries 
49,300,000.00 -  -  - 
Prepayments Subsidiaries of CETC  26,700.00 -  -  - 
Total  52,600,987.66 - 3,646,828.69  - 
 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Long-term 
receivables 
(including 
those due 
within one 
year) 
Subsidiaries of CETC  18,579,578.71 161,642.33 53,512,305.64 1,446,519.44 
Total  18,579,578.71 161,642.33 53,512,305.64 1,446,519.44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
398 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Dividends 
receivable 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision 22,910,404.14 - 22,910,404.14 - 
Total  22,910,404.14 - 22,910,404.14 - 
 
 
7.2 payables to related parties 
Unit：RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Accounts payable Subsidiaries of Hikvision 441,107,077.18 329,639,516.11 
Accounts payable Subsidiaries of CETC 5,000,503.43 3,010,132.22 
Accounts payable Aurotek Corporation and its 
subsidiaries 648,139.19 - 
Total  446,755,719.80 332,649,648.33 
 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Contract liabilities  Subsidiaries of Hikvision 10,138,872.51 5,755.28 
Contract liabilities  Subsidiaries of CETC 242,618.30 382,332.53 
Contract liabilities INESA and its subsidiaries 687.00 - 
Contract liabilities  Daishan Hailai  Not Applicable  688.00 
Total  10,382,177.81 388,775.81 
 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Other payables  Subsidiaries of Hikvision 793,064,398.78 289,914,770.68 
Other payables Qingtang Big Data 9,310,000.00  - 
Other payables  Subsidiaries of CETC 190,790.00 337,710.00 
Other payables  Shanghai Fullhan Micro 100,000.00 100,000.00 
Other payables Zhejiang City Digital 
Technology 10,000.00  - 
Other payables  Wuhu Sensor Tech and its 
subsidiaries   2,040.00 1,200.00 
Total  802,677,228.78 290,353,680.68 
 
 
8. Supplementary Information to the Cash Flow Statement 
 
8.1 Supplementary information to the cash flow statement 
Unit：RMB 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
399 
Supplementary information 2021 2020 
1. Reconciliation of net profit to cash flows from 
operating activities:   
   Net profit 14,088,727,668.02 12,671,388,440.50 
   Add: Assets impairment provision 2,669,913.88 (2,397,952.77) 
       Credit loss provision  119,440,900.17 35,765,705.73 
 Depreciation of fixed assets 271,966,196.58 256,698,165.42 
 Amortization of intangible assets 42,715,421.78 51,580,512.51 
Depreciation of right of use assets 35,547,052.78 - 
       Amortization of long-term deferred expenses 66,502,221.67 21,910,527.64 
  Gains on disposal of fixed assets, intangible assets 
and other long-term assets (30,917,301.16) (16,966.03) 
    Financial expenses  138,779,449.86 270,249,113.29 
 Losses (gains) from change in fair value 48,725,796.17 (69,478,784.83) 
 Investment income (237,198,739.71) (1,095,486,482.55) 
 Share-based payment through equity settlement 238,045,712.93 523,901,019.53 
 Decrease (increase) in restricted funds 195,005,634.49 (16,350,637.05) 
 Decrease (increase) in deferred income tax assets (171,826,866.94) 16,291,195.35 
 Increase of inventories (145,289,110.09) (30,574,481.99) 
 Decrease (increase) in operating receivables (651,204,315.31) 941,257,584.66 
 Increase in operating payables 1,539,868,467.24 974,737,516.48 
       Increase (decrease) in deferred income 243,243,770.27 (39,562,793.01) 
   Net cash flow from operating activities 15,794,801,872.63 14,509,911,682.88 
2. Major investing and financing activities not involving 
cash receipt and payment:   
3. Net change in cash and cash equivalents:   
   Closing balance of cash 26,639,582,696.49 23,264,693,578.70 
   Less: Opening balance of cash 23,264,693,578.70 16,656,028,410.72 
   Add: Closing balance of cash equivalents - - 
   Less: Opening balance of cash equivalents - - 
   Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,374,889,117.79 6,608,665,167.98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
400 
8.2 Composition of cash and cash equivalents 
Unit：RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
I. Cash 26,639,582,696.49 23,264,693,578.70 
      Including: Cash on hand 261,314.61 264,936.39 
              Bank deposit for payment at any time 26,639,219,718.83 23,264,326,122.65 
              Other monetary funds for payment at any 
time 101,663.05 102,519.66 
II. Cash equivalents - - 
III. Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 26,639,582,696.49 23,264,693,578.70 
 
On December 31 st 2021, the Company ’s closing balance of other monetary funds was RMB 17,008,779.94 
(December 31st 2020: RMB 212,015,271.04), of which RMB 16,907,116.89 were all various guarantee deposits 
(December 31st 2020: RMB 211,912,751.38), not cash or cash equivalents.  
 
 
XVI. Supplementary Information 
 
1. Details of Current Non-recurring Gains and Losses 
Unit：RMB 
Item Amount Description 
Profit or loss from disposal of non-current assets 26,069,469.18 / 
The government subsidies included in the current profits and 
losses (excluding the government subsidy closely related to 
regular course of business of the Company and government 
subsidy based on standard quota or quantitative continuous 
enjoyment according to the state industrial policy) 
576,619,421.07 / 
Investment losses from disposal of subsidiaries and other 
business units (169,184,641.43)  
The gains generated when the investment cost of acquiring a 
subsidiary, an associate or joint venture is less than the income 
derived from the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the 
investee 
1,163,932.96 / 
In addition to the Company's normal business related to the 
effective hedging business, gains and losses on changes in fair 
value arising from holding derivative financial assets, derivative 
financial liabilities, other non-current financial assets, and 
investment gains from the disposal of the above-mentioned 
financial assets/financial liabilities and receivables financing 
75,408,081.63 / 
Other non-operating income and expense except the items 
mentioned above (1,471,007.77) / 
Impact of income tax (29,930,824.64) / 
The impact of minority equity (122,987,029.92) / 
Total 355,687,401.08 / 
 
 
                                           Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1st 2021 to December 31st 2021 
 
401 
2. Return on Net Assets and Earnings Per Share 
 
The return on net assets and earnings per share have been prepared by Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., 
Ltd. in accordance with the Information Disclosure and Presentation Rules for Companies Making Public Offering 
of Securities No. 9 – Calculation and Disclosure of Return on Net Assets and Earnings per Share (Revised in 2010) 
issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission. 
 
Unit：RMB 
Profit for the reporting period 
Weighted 
average return on 
net assets (%) 
Earnings per share  
Basic earnings per 
share 
Diluted earnings per 
share 
Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
Company 28.99% 1.810 1.806 
Net profit excluding non-recurring items of profit or loss 
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company 28.38% 1.772 1.767 
 
                                            Hikvision 2021 Annual Report 
402 
Section XI Documents Available for Reference 
1. The financial report was signed and sealed by the person in charge of the Company, the person in 
charge of accounting work and person in charge of accounting organization (Accounting Supervisor);  
 
2. The original audit report containing the seal of the accounting firm and the signature and seal of 
the certified public accountant; 
 
3. Original versions and copies of all the Company's documents and announcements that were 
publicly disclosed on the website designated by CSRC during the reporting period. 
 
The above documents are completely placed at the Company's board of directors’ office. 
 
 
 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
Chairman: Chen Zongnian 
April 16 th 2022 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  
This document is a translated version of the Chinese version 2021 Annual Report (“2021 年年度报
告”), and the published announcements in the Chinese version shall prevail. The complete published 
Chinese 2021 Annual Report may be obtained at www.cninfo.com.cn.   