                                                                                                                                     
 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
2024 Annual Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 19, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                  
                                                    Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
1 
To Shareholders 
In response to the complicated and dynamic business climate in 2024, the Company tapped into 
the potential of the Chinese security market and more actively expanded its security business overseas, 
while remaining committed to scenario -based digitization and innovative businesses. In 2024, the 
combined revenue of our overseas main businesses and innovative businesses surpassed the revenue 
of our domestic main businesses, that is, the total revenue of three businesses groups  - PBG, EBG 
and SMBG - for the first time in our history. 
The Company is determined to bolster its investment in R&D. Seeing the rise of large AI models, 
we actively expand the development of AIoT-powered large multimodal model technology. It is our 
business tenet to identify target markets, align with the advancement of cutting-edge technology, and 
incorporate new technologies into software and hardware products. The Company will keep growing 
its product lines and increasing application scenarios based on its persistent efforts to develop sensing 
technologies utilizing full electromagnetic waves, mechanical waves, and m ulti-band fusion. Since 
2018, the Company has maintained a steady increase in R&D investment, actively responding to the 
continuously deteriorating global operating environment through technological innovation. 
The Company will readily adapt itself to the times. In the years to come, we will shift our focus 
from faster expansion to higher efficiency, ensuring strong performance for all existing businesses. 
Moreover, the Company plans to modify its operating mechanism and optimize its organizational 
structure to better adapt to changes in the external business environment, while leveraging digital 
technology to increase operational efficiency both internally and externally. 
The Company's commitment to global development will not change. Amid the ongoing political 
and economic turbulence worldwide, the Company is subject to standing, severe repression in some 
foreign countries, and is expected to face new challenges in the future. However, we are resolute in 
consistently increasing our investment in overseas ma rketing and expanding the percentage of 
overseas revenue – thanks to the indomitable spirit we have developed over the last 20 years in 
overseas market development. 
The Company will always be customer-centric and create value for customers regardless of how 
                                  
                                                    Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
2 
the business environment changes. Finally, we wish to express our gratitude to all shareholders for 
their trust in and support for the Company! 
 
See far, go further! 
       
Board of Directors of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
April, 2025 
  
                                  
                                                    Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
3 
Section I Important Notes, Contents and Definitions 
The Board of Directors , Board of Supervisors, directors, supervisors and senior management 
guarantee that the information presented in this report is true, accurate and complete without  false 
records, misleading statements or material omissions, and will undertake individual and joint leg al 
liabilities. 
Hu Yangzhong, the Company 's legal representative, Jin Yan, the person in charge of the 
accounting work, and Zhan Junhua, the person in charge of accounting department (accounting 
supervisor) hereby declare and warrant that the financial sta tements in this annual report are true, 
accurate and complete. 
All directors of the Company have attended the board meeting to review this report. 
The profit distribution proposal passed upon deliberation at the meeting of the Board of Directors 
is set out as follows: Based on the total share capital (excluding shares held in the Company's 
repurchase account) as of the record date for the implementation of the 2024 annual profit distribution 
plan, the Company proposed to distribute cash dividend of RMB7.00 (tax inclusive) per each 10 
shares to all shareholders, bonus share and share distribution from capital reserve is nil. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  
This document is a translated version of the Chinese version 202 4 Annual Report ("2024 年年度报
告"), and the published announcements in the Chinese version shall prevail. The complete published 
Chinese 2024 Annual Report may be obtained at www.cninfo.com.cn.  
                                  
                                                    Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
4 
Please read the full annual report and pay particular attention to the following risk factors:  
1) Domestic Economic Transformation Risks: The domestic market is undergoing continuous adjustments in 
fiscal spending and real estate investment, leading to a need for improvement in societal expectations for 
economic development. Additionally, some overseas nations are implementing trade protectionist policies, 
which pose challenges to the export capabilities of domestic enterprises. The economy remains in a transitional 
phase of upgrading and transformation. The Company empowers economic and social digital transformation 
with AIoT technologies and products, driving new developments in productivity. However, the process of 
transformation and upgrading cannot be achieved overnight, and long-term structural pressures on the economy 
and society persist. Fluctuations during this process will continue to impact the company's operations. 
2) Global Economic Downturn Risks: Growth in key economies has decelerated, regional development remains 
unbalanced worldwide, and macroeconomic  volatility persists. The C ompany mitigates operational risks in 
specific regions through its diversified business footprint, tailoring strategies to local conditions. However, 
should a global economic recession occur, the company's operations may still face material impacts. 
3) Geopolitical Environment Risks: The global political system is evolving toward multipolarity, with stability 
and predictability continuously diminishing, while conflicts in certain regions  persist unresolved. In recent 
years, the Company has strengthened risk management and enhanced response capabilities, adjusting resource 
allocations in line with operational environments. Nevertheless, should geopolitical conditions deteriorate 
abruptly, the Company's operations in certain countries and regions may still face adverse impacts. 
4) Technological Obsolescence Risks: Technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data, the Internet of 
Things (IoT), and cloud computing are advancing rapidly, with iterative updates accelerating. The Company 
has established a certain level of expertise in areas such as IoT sensing, AI, and big data, and has maintained 
technological advancement through extensive commercial practices. However, if the Company fails to closely 
monitor the evolution of cutting -edge technologies or maintain innovation and expansion within its 
technological framework, the uncertainty risks associated with future development will intensify. 
5) Internal Management Risks: The Company's expanding operational scale, continuous diversification  of 
products and services, and increasing internal complexity are elevating new challenges to governance 
capabilities. Through institutionalization and process standardization, the Company codifies management 
expertise while emphasizing talent pipeline dev elopment. However, should management capabilities fail to 
keep pace with business growth, operational performance could be compromised. 
                                  
                                                    Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
5 
6) Financial Risks Caused by Customers' Reduced Ability to P ay: The liquidity of commercial transactions 
is susceptible to economic volatility, with the Company's capital turnover being closely tied to the operational 
conditions of partners across the value chain. While maintaining robust collection mechanisms, prudent 
operations, and substantial cash reserves with low financing costs, the Company may still face slower payment 
recovery and operational disruptions should overall market liquidity risks escalate. 
7) Legal and Compliance Risks: Multilateral trade mechanisms are significantly impacted by political events, 
and the laws and regulations that commercial activities must comply with are complex and vary from country 
to country. There is a trend towards stricter data regulations globally, which poses higher demands on the 
Company's legal and compliance capabilities. The Company has established an effective legal and compliance 
management system through practical experience and has undergone multiple business tests domestically and 
internationally. However, if the Company's legal and compliance capabilities cannot keep up with the evolving 
situation, it may still have a negative impact on operations. 
8) Supply Chain Risks: Some countries are using supply chains as a means of international competition, and the 
global supply system has been continuously impacted by geopolitical events in recent years. Despite efforts to 
establish diversified supply networks and properly manage inventory, the Company may still be affected by a 
widespread supply chain disruption, which could impact its business stability. 
9) Cybersecurity Risks: The Company  consistently emphasizes cybersecurity capabilities and system 
development, actively implementing measures to enhance product and system security. However, incidents 
such as computer viruses, malware, and hacker attacks may still occur, potentially damagin g the Company's 
systems or products and creating cybersecurity vulnerabilities. 
10) Exchange Rate Volatility Risks: The Company conducts operations in multiple countries and regions 
overseas, primarily settling transactions in foreign currencies. While employi ng reasonable financial 
instruments for risk hedging, inherent foreign currency exposure from sales, procurement, and financing 
activities remains. Exchange rate fluctuations may consequently affect the Company's financial performance. 
11) Intellectual Property Risks:  The Company maintains substantial R&D investments yielding numerous 
technological achievements, supported by relatively comprehensive intellectual property protection measures. 
Nevertheless, risks of intellectual property disputes and infringement persist. 
The above-mentioned alerts do not include all the potential risks for the Company. Investors are advised to invest 
with caution.
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
6 
CONTENTS 
 
To Shareholders .................................................................................................................................................. 1 
Section I Important Notes, Contents and Definitions ...................................................................................... 3 
Section II Corporate Profile & Key Financial Data ......................................................................................... 8 
Section III Management Discussion and Analysis ......................................................................................... 14 
Section IV Corporate Governance ................................................................................................................ 143 
Section V Environmental and Social Responsibility .................................................................................... 181 
Section VI Significant Events ......................................................................................................................... 182 
Section VII Changes in Shares and Information about Shareholders ....................................................... 204 
Section VIII Information of Preferred Shares ............................................................................................. 217 
Section IX Bonds ............................................................................................................................................. 218 
Section X Financial Report ............................................................................................................................ 219 
Section XI Documents Available for Reference ........................................................................................... 369 
 
 
  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
7 
Definitions  
Term Definition 
Reporting Period From January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
Articles of Associations Articles of Associations for Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd 
Hikvision, the Company, our 
Company, the Group Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
CETC China Electronics Technology Group Corportation, the actual controller of the 
Company 
CETHIK China Electronics Technology HIK Group Ltd ., the controlling shareholder of the 
Company  
EZVIZ, EZVIZ Network Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd.(According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
HikRobot, Robotic business Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to 
the corresponding business) 
Sensortech, HikAuto Shijiazhuang Sensortech Smart Technology Ltd. (According to the context, also 
refers to the corresponding business) 
HikMicro, Micro Sensing, 
Thermal imaging business 
Hangzhou Hikmicro Sensing Technology Ltd. (According to the context, also refers 
to the corresponding business) 
HikSemi, HikStorage, 
Storage business 
Wuhan Hikstorage Technology Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
HikImaging Hangzhou Hikimaging Technology Ltd. (According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
HikFire Hangzhou Hikfire Technology Ltd. (Acc ording to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
HikRayin, Rayin, 
HikSecurityCheck 
Hangzhou Rayin Technology Ltd.  (According to the context, also refers to the 
corresponding business) 
Innovative Business 
A long investment cycle, business  prospects uncertain, has the high risk and 
uncertainty, in need for direct or indirect investment in exploration, in order for the 
Company to timely enter into new areas of business. Initially disclosed in  
Announcement about Management Measures for Core Staff Investment in Innovative 
Business (www.cninfo.com.cn). 
In this report, innovative business also refers to EZVIZ, HikRobot, HikAuto, 
HikMicro, HikSemi, HikImaging, HikFire, Rayin and their related business or 
products.  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                                     
8 
Section II Corporate Profile & Key Financial Data 
I. Corporate Information 
Stock abbreviation HIKVISION Stock code 002415 
Stock exchange where the shares of the Company 
are listed Shenzhen Stock Exchange 
Name of the Company in Chinese 杭州海康威视数字技术股份有限公司 
Abbr. of the Company name in Chinese  海康威视 
Name of the Company in English (if any) HANGZHOU HIKVISION DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD 
Abbr. of the Company name in English (if any) HIKVISION 
Legal representative Hu Yangzhong 
Registered address No. 555 Qianmo Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province 
Postal code of Registered address 310051 
Changes in the Company's registered address 
The Company was listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange on May 28th 2010. The 
original registered address was No. 36 MachengRoad, Xihu District, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang Province. In 2016, the Company's registered address was changed to No. 
555 Qianmo Road, Binjiang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province. 
Business address No. 518 Wulianwang Street, Binjiang District, Hangzhou 
Postal code of Business address 310051 
Company website www.hikvision.com 
E-mail market@hikvision.com; ir@hikvision.com 
II. Contacts and Contact Information 
 Board Secretary Securities Affairs Representative 
Name Feng Wei Cai Chao 
Address No. 518 Wulianwang Street, Binjiang District, 
Hangzhou 
No. 518 Wulianwang Street, Binjiang 
District, Hangzhou 
Tel. 0571-88075998 ; 0571-89710492 0571-88075998 ; 0571-89710492 
Fax 0571-89986895 0571-89986895 
E-mail hikvision@hikvision.com hikvision@hikvision.com 
III. Information Disclosure and Place of the Report 
The securities exchange website for the disclosure of the Annual 
Report www.szse.cn 
Media and website for the disclosure of the Annual Report Securities Times, China Securities Journal, Shanghai securities 
Journal, www.cninfo.com.cn 
Place where the Annual Report is available for inspection Office of the Board of Directors of the Company 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                                     
9 
IV. Company Registration and Alteration 
Unified Social Credit Identifier 91330000733796106P 
Changes in principle business activities since the 
Company was listed (if any) 
The Company's business scope covers: licensed items: production of Class II 
and Class III radiation devices; sales of Class II and Class III radiation devices; 
radioisotope production (except the radiopharmaceuticals for positron emission 
computed tomography ); sales of Class II, Class III, Class IV and Class V 
radioactive sources; engineering and construction activities; type II value-added 
telecommunications services; online data processing and transaction processing 
services (operating e -commerce); Internet informat ion services; general 
aviation services. (as for the items which by law are subject to approval, 
business activities can be carried out only after having been approved by the 
relevant departments, and the specific operation items are subject to the terms 
of the approval). General items: manufacturing of digital video surveillance 
systems; sales of digital video surveillance systems; manufacturing of security 
equipment; sales of security equipment; manufacturing of IoT equipment; sales 
of IoT equipment; manufacturing of intelligent unmanned aerial drones; sales 
of intelligent unmanned aerial drones; manufacturing of computer software and 
hardware and peripherals; wholesale of computer software and hardware and 
auxiliary equipment; manufacturing of communicati on equipment; sales of 
communication equipment; manufacturing of network equipment; sales of 
network equipment; manufacturing of display devices; sales of display devices; 
manufacturing of intelligent mobile equipment; sales of intelligent mobile 
equipment; manufacturing of auto parts and accessories; wholesale of auto parts 
and accessories; manufacturing of electric signal appliances and devices; sales 
of electric signal appliances and devices; manufacturing of mechanical and 
electrical equipment; sales of  mechanical and electrical equipment; 
manufacturing of special labor protective supplies; sales of special labor 
protective supplies; sales of electronic products; sales of digital cultural and 
creative technological equipment; sales of second-class medical device; sales of 
charging pile; technical services, technical development, technical consultation, 
technical knowledge exchange, technology transfer and technology promotion; 
software development; development of network and information security 
software; information system integration services; computer system services; 
research and development of IoT technologies; IoT technology services; IoT 
application services; big data services; data processing and storage support 
services; security system monitoring  services; security technology defense 
system's design and construction services; electronic and mechanical equipment 
maintenance (excluding special equipment); general equipment repairmen; 
centralized fast -charging station; parking lot services; digital c ultural and 
creative content application services; health consulting s ervices (excluding 
diagnostic and treatment s ervices); environmental protection monitoring;  
marketing planning;  business training (excluding education and vocational 
training that require licensing); import and export of goods; import and export 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                                     
10 
of technology (Except for items which by law are subject to approval, the 
Company can determine and carry out operational activities in accordance with 
the law by virtue of its business license).  
Changes of controlling shareholders of the 
Company (if any) No change during the reporting period 
V. Other Relevant Information 
Accounting firm engaged by the Company 
Name of the accounting firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
Business address of the accounting firm 30F Bund Center 222 Yan An Road East Shanghai 
Name of accountants for writing signature Chen Yan, Liu Ying 
Sponsor institution engaged by the Company to continuously perform its supervisory function during the Reporting 
Period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
Financial advisor engaged by the Company to perform the duties of continuous supervision during the reporting 
period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
VI. Key Accounting Data and Financial Indicators 
Whether the Company performed a retrospective adjustment or restatement of previous accounting data 
√ Yes □ No 
Reasons for retrospective adjustment or restatement of previous accounting data 
√ Consolidation under Common Control 
Unit: RMB 
 2024 
2023 
YoY 
Change 
(%) 
2022 
Before the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
Before the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
Revenue (RMB) 92,495,525,118.30 89,339,856,855.68 89,341,177,610.40 3.53% 83,166,321,681.14 83,167,244,665.69 
Net profit attributable to 
shareholders of the 
Company (RMB) 
11,977,327,023.54 14,107,621,359.66 14,107,726,276.26 -15.10% 12,837,704,462.49 12,837,782,699.68 
Net profit attributable to 
shareholders of the 
Company excluding 
non-recurring gains and 
losses (RMB) 
11,814,861,641.16 13,665,962,325.65 13,665,962,325.65 -13.55% 12,331,058,280.04 12,331,058,280.04 
Net cash flows from 
operating activities 
(RMB) 
13,264,092,022.73 16,623,254,305.92 16,622,209,721.05 -20.20% 10,164,135,382.38 10,165,498,912.07 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                                     
11 
 2024 
2023 
YoY 
Change 
(%) 
2022 
Before the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
Before the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
Basic earnings per share 
(RMB/share) 
1.297 1.520 1.520 -14.67% 1.370 1.370 
Diluted earnings per 
share (RMB/share) 
1.297 1.520 1.520 -14.67% 1.370 1.370 
Weighted average ROE  15.34% 19.64% 19.64% -4.30% 19.62% 19.62% 
 
At December 31, 
2024 
At December 31, 2023 
YoY 
Change 
(%) 
At December 31, 2022 
Before the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
Before the 
adjustment 
After the 
adjustment 
Total assets (RMB) 132,016,200,156.14 138,848,007,548.55 138,858,122,879.55 -4.93% 119,234,833,850.69 119,244,597,584.64 
Net assets attributable to 
shareholders of the 
Company (RMB) 
80,668,661,062.88 76,354,265,540.14 76,354,265,540.14 5.65% 68,389,337,524.32 68,389,337,524.32 
 
The Company's net profit before and after deducting non-recurring gains and losses in the last three fiscal years is 
negative, and the audit report of the most recent year shows that there is uncertainty about the Company's ability to 
continue operations 
□ Yes √ No 
Net profit before and after deducting extraordinary gains and losses is negative 
□ Yes √ No 
 
The total share capital of the Company as of the previous trading day of the annual report disclosure: 
The total share capital of the Company as of the previous trading day of the annual report disclosure 
(share) 
9,233,198,326 
Fully diluted earnings per share calculated with the latest share capital 
Fully diluted earnings per share (RMB/share) calculated with the latest share capital 1.297 
VII. Differences in Accounting Data between Domestic and Overseas Accounting Standards 
1. Difference in the Financial Report of Net Profits and Net Assets According to the Disclosure of 
International Financial Reporting Standards and China Accounting Standards 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no difference in the financial report of net profits and net assets according to the disclosure of International 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                                     
12 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and China Accounting Standards in the reporting period. 
2. Difference in the Financial Report of Net Profits and Net Assets According to the Disclosure of Overseas 
Accounting Standards and China Accounting Standards 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no difference in the financial report of net profits and net assets according to the disclosure of Overseas 
Accounting Standards and China Accounting Standards in the reporting period. 
3. Explanation of the Differences in Accounting Data under Domestic and Overseas Accounting Standards 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
VIII. Key Quarterly Financial Indicators 
   Unit: RMB 
Note: During the year, business combination (s) under common control occurred, and the quarterly data was 
retrospectively adjusted in accordance with the accounting standards for business enterprises. 
Whether there is significant difference between the above individual or aggregate financial indicators and that of 
what disclosed in the quarterly report, half-year report 
□ Yes √ No 
IX. Items and Amounts of Non-recurring Gains and Losses 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 2022 (Restated) 
Profits or losses from disposal of non-current assets (including the 
write-off for the impairment provision of assets) 
-14,862,769.68 -10,507,192.80 -18,617,582.10 
The government subsidies included in the current profits and losses 
(excluding the government subsidy that are closely related to the 
Company's normal business operations, in line with national 
policies and regulations, enjoyed in accordance with the 
determined standards, and have a continuous impact on the 
566,828,064.11 518,953,527.79 726,269,569.92 
 1st Quarter 
(Restated) 
2nd Quarter 
(Restated) 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter 
Revenue (RMB) 17,817,550,424.43 23,391,545,781.93  23,782,371,582.09  27,504,057,329.85  
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the 
Company 1,915,795,733.79 3,148,323,123.50  3,043,629,637.17  3,869,578,529.08  
Net profit attributable to shareholders of the 
Company excluding non-recurring gains 
and losses 
1,760,276,683.16 3,482,729,220.56 2,908,130,076.06  3,663,725,661.38 
Net cash flows from operating activities -3,965,909,130.83 3,776,273,089.93 2,793,361,115.70  10,660,366,947.93  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                                     
13 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 2022 (Restated) 
Company's profit and loss) 
Apart from the effective hedging activities related to the company's 
normal business operations, the fair value changes in financi al 
assets and financial liabilities held by non-financial enterprises, as 
well as the gains or losses from the disposal of these financial 
assets and liabilities. 
41,760,525.08 -67,516,075.30 -99,112,871.09 
The current period net profit or loss of the sub sidiary from the 
beginning of the period to the date of merger under common 
control 
-295,677.15 218,576.25 162,994.14 
Gains and losses from debt restructuring 101,109,433.26 - - 
Share-based payment expenses recognized in one-time due to the 
cancellation or modification of the equity incentive plan 
-471,167,293.91 - - 
Investment gains and losses on disposal of subsidiaries and other 
business units 
- - 3,550,851.71 
Gains and losses from a business combination achieved in stages 
not under common control 
- 116,433,610.45 - 
Other non -operating income and expenditures except the items 
mentioned above  
53,766,054.09 69,942,462.96 72,446,008.81 
Other profit or loss items that meet the definition of non-recurring 
profit or loss 
- 1,106,664.51 - 
Less:  Impact of income tax 20,093,234.14 64,745,616.43 74,392,826.66 
Impact of the minority interests (after tax) 94,579,719.28 122,122,006.82 103,581,725.09 
Total 162,465,382.38 441,763,950.61 506,724,419.64 
 
Details of other gain/loss items that meet the definition of non-recurring gains and losses: 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company did not have other gain/ loss items that meet the definition of non-recurring gains and losses. 
 
Explain the reasons if the Company classifies any non -recurring gain/loss item mentioned in the <Explanatory 
Announcement No. 1 on Information Disclosure for Companies Offering Their Securities to the Public —Non-
recurring Gains and Losses> as a recurrent gain/loss item 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company did not classify an item as a non-recurring gain/loss according to the <Explanatory Announcement 
No. 1 on Information Disclosure for Companies Offering Their Securities to the Public—Non-recurring Gains and 
Losses> into a recurrent gain/loss item.
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
14 
Section III Management Discussion and Analysis 
I. The Industry Situation and Main Business of the Company during the Reporting Period 
1. Business Overview: 
Artificial intelligence (AI) is undergoing revolutionary changes, as the advancement of large language models 
(LLMs) has provided a significant boost to the widespread use of AI and the rise of large multimodal models (LMMs) 
has accelerated the deep fusion of the physical and digital worlds. Amid this technological transformation, Hikvision 
remains committed to expanding the boundaries of IoT perception based on its expertise in the sector of AI-powered 
Internet of Things (AIoT), promote the application of LMMs, and establish an end-to-end loop of applications with 
big data and software capabilities, in an effort to facilitate the digital transformation of society. 
IoT perception technology, which records everything digitally, serves as the "bridge" connecting the 
physical world with the digital. With visible light at the core, Hikvision has built a multi-dimensional perception 
system that encompasses the electromagnetic spectrum from millimeter waves, infrared rays, lasers and X-rays to 
ultraviolet rays, and integrates sound waves, vibrations, temperature/humidity, pressure, magnetism and other 
sensing technologies. This leads to a complete IoT data portal. The persistent develop ment of multi-dimensional 
perception capabilities has increased the breadth of data acquisition, and the continuous upgrade of perception 
product performance has improved the depth and accuracy of data, rendering everything perceptible and accessible. 
AI, which converts raw perception records into neatly structured data and interprets them, is the key to 
understanding scenarios and businesses.  Abundant IoT perception materials provide a high -quality data 
foundation for the training of large models, powering the iteration and improvement of Hikvision's AI algorithms. 
Hikvision's large models - Guanlan has developed capabilities related to large IoT perception models, large language 
models and large multimodal models to serve the technological chain from perception to cognition. In the realm of 
perception, Guanlan enables accurate analysis and comprehension of IoT data;  in terms of cognitive capabilities, 
knowledge-enhanced large language models allow it to significantly improve the capabilities of semantic 
understanding, predictive inference and optimized decision-making in complex scenarios. 
Big data and software, which enable the organization and induction of IoT data, are the secret to 
unleashing the value of IoT data.  Leveraging its profound expertise in cloud computing, big data and other 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
15 
technical domains, Hikvision has built a capability architecture that "integrates cloud and edge, IoT and information 
network, digitalization and intelligence" to support efficient d ata processing and analysis. Hikvision's unified 
software technology architecture supports a component-based approach to software development. The vast software 
component library and high component reuse rate greatly reduce the development and maintenance costs for users, 
helping with agile development and rapid iteration of software applications in different industries. 
Hikvision has been leading the way in the AIoT sector for over two decades. It has gradually built a sound 
technical framework centered on IoT perception, AI, and big data. Based on this, it has developed more than 30,000 
different AIoT products. The Company serves two business segments: security and scenario-based digitization and 
fuels the digital transformation of the whole society via t hree business groups and eight innovative businesses, as 
well as two marketing systems - domestic and overseas. 
Under the leadership of the Enterprise Business Group (EBG), the scenario -based digitization business has 
taken shape across the organization in recent years, unleashing new growth space for the Company. The rise in the 
proportion of overseas revenue results in a more balanced core business structure, indicating the ongoing expansion 
of Hikvision's worldwide brand power. Innovative business has ma intained rapid development, which constantly 
develops new capabilities and injects fresh momentum into the Company, advancing Hikvision's steady pathway 
towards AIoT. Hikvision will continuously reinforce its advantages in multi -dimensional perception technology, 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
16 
enhance the integration and innovation of large models and industry expertise, and unlock the value of IoT data with 
more robust big data capabilities. In doing so, the Company hopes to contribute to precise and convenient social 
governance, sound and efficient business operations, and a smart and healthy lifestyle, continuing to lead the new 
future of AIoT. 
2. Product System 
With video perception technology as the starting point, Hikvision continues to expand its IoT perception 
capabilities in more dimensions. Over the past more than 20 years, it has built a multi-dimensional perception system 
that encompasses electromagnetic waves and mechanical waves, and integrates physical sensing technologies based 
on temperature, humidity, pressure and magnetism. With an extensive perception capacity and multi -dimensional 
perception integration capabilities, Hikvision has established an IoT perception technology platform that supports 
growing innovative applications in the field of scenario-based digitization. 
Hikvision has seen its AI technology continuing to develop and its software and hardware products embracing 
greater intelligence. In 2023 , the Guanlan Large Model was released. Based on  the Guanlan, Hikvision's AI 
algorithm capabilities have expanded from visual algorithms to multimodal algorithms, catalyzing multi -
dimensional upgrades of software and hardware applications. 
Guanlan pushes the limits of perception intelligence: Hikvision's large IoT perception models include large 
vision, optical fiber, audio, and X -ray models. Thanks to these large models, target identification tasks in 
complicated contexts have seen a notable rise in sensitivity and accuracy. For instance, the large vision model has 
reduced false alarms by 90% in perimeter prevention, the large millimeter wave model has achieved an 86% 
reduction in missed detection of prohibited goods via safety gates, the large optical fiber model for auscultation has 
a relative reduction of 72% in false alarms, and the large X-ray model has reduced missed detection by 75% in the 
recognition of prohibited goods. 
Guanlan expands the boundaries of perception capabilities:  Large multimodal models allow for the 
detection and identification of everything through natural language definitions. Based on multimodal search, image 
features and text features are aligned to enable easy text search. The perception and inference capabilities of large 
multimodal models can be used to disrupt the conventional development paradigm of visual perception plus artificial 
logical inference, achieve end-to-end inference through text description, and facilitate the understanding of complex 
events. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
17 
Guanlan increases cognitive intelligence applications:  In the field of cognitive intelligence, the large 
language model serves as the "brain," which combines industrial expertise to develop a specialized agent, 
empowering the digital upgrade of the industry. A new paradigm of human-machine interaction driven by natural 
language is established to allow for accurate response to fuzzy needs. Semantic understanding and logical inference 
capabilities are strengthened for accurate knowledge extraction and dynamic matching. All of these advancements 
lead to vertical applications s uch as traffic congestion diagnosis, wind power prediction, and supply chain 
scheduling optimization. 
 
Hikvision continues to improve and expand its IoT perception technology reserves and raise the intelligence 
level of its products. In response to scenario-based needs, Hikvision has worked hard to develop innovative technical 
solutions and efficient and practical products. This results in a comprehensive portfolio of AIoT software and 
hardware products that represent viable pathways to digital transformation across society. 
2.1 New Digital Products 
Starting with visible light perception, Hikvision continues to push the boundaries of perception technology. It 
combines its diverse array of perception technologies such as radar perception, infrared perception, X-ray perception, 
spectrum perception, laser perception, and sound wave perception with extensive product engineering capabilities, 
to consistently introduce innovative digital products that satisfy market demands. The Company's innovative digital 
products make digital information that was previously impossible or difficult to perceive readily accessible - from 
the microstructure to the composition of a substance, from the height, quantity to the volume of a material, from the 
running speed, vibration, temperature to the pressure, sound of a device, from the appearance flaws to the internal 
defects of a product, from the monitoring data of public utilities to natural environment... These products help 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
18 
address specific problems on the site in each real-world scenario and fuel the digital transformation of thousands of 
industries. 
2.1.1 Visible light perception 
Hikvision's vast expertise in visible light imaging serves as the foundation for its ongoing product innovation. 
Through hardware structure design and algorithm capability optimization, it develops digital solutions for scenarios 
beyond security, represented by manufacturing, environmental monitoring, and equipment management. 
In the element collection stage, Hikvision integrates visible light imaging with data from sensors such as 
visibility meters, GNSS (global navigation satellite systems), accelerometers,  and gyroscopes to develop multi -
dimensional perception capabilities; in the intelligent analysis stage, capabilities such as high sensitivity, hig h 
accuracy, and convenient configuration are enabled leveraging breakthroughs in the application of large vision 
models; and in the stage of scenario application, through new materials and processes like self-cleaning technology, 
remote automatic adjustment technology, and vibration-absorbing materials, Hikvision has ensured the adaptability 
of products to special environments and created truly easy-to-operate and maintenance-free smart cameras. 
Visibility meters: On expressways and highways, reduced visibi lity increases the risk of traffic accidents.  
Individual visibility sensors are susceptible to rain, snow, dust, water mist and other environmental factors, and 
when anomalous data is produced, maintenance costs might be considerable. In order to precisely detect changes in 
mist and eliminate false alarms, Hikvision uses visibility detecting sensors that meet national standards in 
conjunction with sensors for temperature, humidity, air pressure, and rainfall. Moreover, spider -web-free, auto 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
19 
rotating and wip er features are included to enable self -cleaning and eliminate the need for maintenance, 
guaranteeing long-term, stable operation. 
Cameras for robotic arm collision avoidance: As industrial robotic arms generate huge energy when running, 
unauthorized access to the operating area may cause safety accidents.  In three -dimensional space, traditional 
protective measures like fences and gratings are ineffective in providing complete protection. Hikvision's camera 
for robotic arm collision avoidance is powered by binocular stereo vision imaging technology and embedded with 
a large model algorithm for people categorization and identification. The camera can accurately identify individuals 
with the use of billions of data sets for preliminary training and algorithm optimization based on the safe operating 
scenarios of robotic arms. When an individual enters and remains in a robotic arm's operating area, the camera will 
respond quickly with a prompt alarm to avoid human-machine collision caused by improper operation of the robotic 
arm, guaranteeing scenario-specific safety with high accuracy and high reliability. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
20 
 
Anti-vibration and anti-shake cameras: Apart from steel manufacturing and overhead crane remote control, 
Hikvision has improved its range of anti -vibration and anti-shake cameras for application at ports and rail yards 
through continued technological innovation.  For container lifting, the Company has launched a series of anti -
corrosion and anti-vibration cameras that use wrap-around vibration-reducing materials and patented self-locking 
vibration-resistant lenses to withstand the strong impact from hoists. These cameras are placed on four corners of a 
hoist to accurately present the details of lockholes, assist in remote control and efficient stacking, and improve the 
throughput efficiency of terminals. Regarding gantry cranes at ports, Hikvision provides an innovative self -
stabilizing camera that is equipped with a hydraulic damping bracket structure. With a mobile perimeter algorithm 
based on large models, the camera can monitor individual intrusion in an accurate and thorough manner and offer 
24/7 visual support for remote crane control, thereby ensuring port safety and operational efficiency. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
21 
 
High-precision measurement cameras for visual structures: Based on optical imaging principles and visual 
imaging technology, the Company has introduced a series of high -precision measurement cameras for visual 
structures. The camera is designed to image the target and calculate the target's pixel change. Combined with a pre-
calibrated matrix algorithm, it converts pixel displacement into physical space displacement to enable contactless 
measurement. The solution outperforms traditional measurement approaches with visible outcomes, easy 
installation and easy maintenance. In particular, the vision‐based displacement measurement camera applies a sub-
pixel vision‐based displacement detection algorithm to monitor the target pixel changes on the target object and 
calculate the horizontal and vertical displacement change values of the measured target at the target position. As an 
alternative to hydrostatic level mea surement, it offers high -frequency detection of 50 times per second and 
measurement with 0.1mm precision. The image -based crack meter, with a built -in image-based intelligent crack 
detection and measurement algorithm, performs image preprocessing on the id entified concrete cracks, and 
precisely measures crack width through edge finding, outlining, positioning, segmentation, point -by-point 
measurement and other processes. Then crack encoding and a dynamic error calibration algorithm are used to track 
crack changes in sub -millimeters point-by-point. This series of high -precision measurement cameras for visual 
structures have wide uses such as bridge structural health monitoring, building settlement, and creeps of rail, 
providing intelligent solutions for the d igital construction of infrastructure such as transportation facilities and 
structures. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
22 
 
PDAs for scanning: Hikvision has launched a number of professional PDAs based on in -house specialized 
scanners and a deep learning -based barcode recognition algorithm . These include: a long -distance scanner that 
makes long-distance scanning easier under conditions like high shelves;  a color barcode scanner that scans codes 
and stores color images simultaneously in post stations, improving the efficiency of finding expr ess packages; a 
volumetric measurer that makes cargo volume measurement more efficient during delivery package collection; PDA 
made of novel materials, which may withstand corrosion and be used for extended periods of time in corrosive 
environments. There are also PDAs that serve many other purposes such as OCR (optical character recognition), 
DPM (direct part mark), cold chain transport, pressure ulcer treatment, delivering data collection and intelligent 
recognition solutions to logistics and express, ret ail e-commerce, healthcare, manufacturing, public services and 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
23 
other industries. 
 
Ultra-depth-of-field 3D digital microscopes: The solution, which features AI-based image augmentation and 
high-resolution imaging, allows blur-to-clear conversion with a single click. Without requiring a manual lens change, 
it has all-electric magnification switches that can be adjusted from 30 to 6000 times using the mouse and handle.  
The microscope's innovative ultra -depth-of-field synthesis and multi -mode 3D stitching tech nology enable it to 
precisely restore the three -dimensional morphology of samples. This makes it a perfect tool for detecting 
microscopic defects in industries like semiconductors, lithium batteries, and automobiles, as well as an intelligent 
upgrading method for scientific research, industrial quality inspection, and other fields. 
 
Industrial barcode scanners:  Barcodes are becoming increasingly important and widely used in product 
production, circulation and quality control. HikRobot, which specializes in industrial production process traceability 
and logistics sorting, has developed a full range of industrial barcode scanners, including fixtures, handheld guns 
and barcode scanning modules. This series is equipped with a high -performance hardware platform, and adopts a 
deep learning-based decoding solution and multicolor light imaging optimization technology. This leads to a high 
and stable recognition rate as well as exceptional decoding performance and efficiency in response to less readable 
barcodes caused by broken needles, ink overflow and other issues. These products are compact, highly protective, 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
24 
and adaptable to a variety of challenging conditions. Most of them fulfill primary industrial protocols and 
communication requirements.  
AI-based industrial cameras: Smart industrial camera is a kind of machine vision product that combines 
image acquisition, light source, image processing, and communication equipment. It is extensively used in many 
industrial scenarios.  HikRobot has developed a full lineup o f smart cameras with built -in, exclusive, high -
performance machine vision processing algorithms. Upon easy setup, the camera can perform visual inspection 
without the need for programming thanks to its modular design and user-friendly interface. It is highly integrated, 
compact, and easy to maintain, making it ideal for installation in confined locations. In addition to detection for 
presence, front/back, position, size, and defects, the product is also embedded with AI registration and learning, AI 
character recognition/code reading and other edge learning and deep learning detection algorithms, offering superior 
functions and high cost performance in quality inspection for conventional equipment production and other 
applications. 
  

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
25 
2.1.2 Millimeter wave perception 
Millimeter wave radars, which accurately measure a target's distance, speed, angle and other attributes, have 
become an indispensable technical means in many fields. Hikvision is dedicated to multiple technical routes such 
as millimeter wave radars and radar-video fusion. Driven by dual wheels - technological innovation and scenario-
based demands, the Company has introduced radar products beyond the realm of security. These offerings are widely 
and creatively applied in transportation, industr ial manufacturing and other domains, bolstering the intelligent 
upgrade of all sectors. 
Millimeter-wave radars are widely used in the industrial field. In 2024, Hikvision applied its 1D –4D product 
matrix in over 100 scenarios across industries like cement,  building materials, chemicals, steel, metallurgy, 
electricity, mining, food, breeding, pharmaceuticals, ports and other industries. These include high -temperature 
clinker warehouses, highly corrosive sulfuric acid tanks, highly dusty lime silos, explosion -proof coal silos, low-
dielectric-constant PTA storage tanks, strong -clutter alumina silos, and low -temperature strong-water-vapor slag 
grab cranes, among other harsh settings. Hikvision's solution improves productivity and lowers operating costs by 
addressing issues such as low accuracy of material measurement, unstable detection, inefficient spatial scanning, 
and high failure rate, creating substantial value for a variety of sectors. 
Positioning radars: Precise positioning devices are necessary for the unattended operation of heavy equipment, 
including overhead cranes, hoists, and port machinery, in industries such as coal mining, steel metallurgy, and ports. 
Large machinery become intelligent thanks to Hikvision's radars, which can pinpoint their location with centimeter-
level precision. This enables accurate route planning and efficient operations. The positioning radar, based on the 
principle of secondary radar and a distributed control form, facilitates incoherent, full -duplex "communication + 
perception." With direct wave, measurements may be made more precisely and steadily over a greater distance. So 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
26 
far, the solution has been used in real-world scenarios such as slag grab cranes and material shed stacker-reclaimers. 
Fast imaging radars: Dynamic real-time material level monitoring is essential for industrial silos with high-
speed, mass material flow. Overstock or understock may result from delayed feedback of material height or volume, 
which directly compromises safety and reduces the industrial chai n's collaborative efficiency.  To address this, 
Hikvision has iterated minute-level imaging radars and pioneered in applying optical communication technology to 
millimeter-wave scanning imaging, eliminating the need for physical slip ring structures in two -dimensional 
scanning. Coupled with the calibration process that unifies two-dimensional and three-dimensional coordinates, the 
scanning time is greatly reduced from minutes to within 10 seconds. Thus, the usage of imaging radars has expanded 
from basic bac k-end monitoring services to front -end industrial control, enabling users to manage material pile 
warehouses, equipment, and statistical reports in a more accurate and intuitive manner. These radars are now used 
in a variety of sectors, including cement, building materials, food, breeding, metallurgy, electricity, and ports. 
Radar level meters:  An 80GHz high-frequency radar that has a 120m range, a 3° beam angle, and ±2mm 
precision can be used for continuous, non-contact and accurate level measurement of solid materials and liquids in 
industrial silos, piles, tanks, pools, and more.  An AI-based false echo suppression algorithm integrated into the 
device automatically scans and marks sources of interference such as stirring parts and beams in a tank, intelligently 
suppresses and shields them, and outputs the exact level value on site. The Company operates a laboratory dedicated 
to testing radar level meters in a range of hard working situations, guaranteeing that its products maintain accurate 
measurement under challenging settings including high temperature, high pressure, corrosion, dust, foam, a nd 
adhesion. Hikvision's radar level meters have been widely used in chemical, power generation, steel, cement, food 
and other industries. 
Radar-video integrated devices for intelligent transportation: Hikvision's radar-video integrated device for 
intelligent transportation extracts and fuses radar and video features prior to target detection. In other words, it 
directly extracts multi-frame video images and real-time radar point cloud features for feature-level pre-fusion, and 
then obtains the target's speed, distance, direction, unique identification code and other information. The "feature-
level pre-fusion" eliminates the constraints of individual sensors, allowing for the simultaneous collection, labeling, 
and fusion of multi-dimensional data. This is accompanied by a higher matching rate of radar -video fusion and a 
more continuous target detection trajectory, endowing the product with ultra-long-distance, high-precision vehicle 
and traffic trajectory detection capabilities. Compared with vision or radar sensors, Hikvision's radar-video assisted 
products exhibit consistent performance in both daytime and night, as well as in rainy and foggy environments, and 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
27 
have been extensively used.  
Radar-video assisted FOD (foreign object debris) detectors: High-resolution radar detection combined with 
video review leads to a higher accuracy of foreign object detection. The device can detect foreign objects on airport 
runways such as mechanical parts, stones, plastics, birds, and metal devices, with centimeter -level pr ecision 
(20mm*20mm). The combination of radar detection and video review allows for 24/7 detection of foreign object 
debris on runways - even in bad weather such as rain, snow and fog, with an accuracy of more than 95%. 
2.1.3 Infrared perception 
Infrared perception technology, which is based on the infrared radiation characteristics of objects, enables 
precise monitoring and intelligent analysis through non-contact temperature imaging. Combining infrared thermal 
imaging technology with MEMS technology, the Company has been engaged in the iteration and upgrading of 
technology and products to meet the demands of industrial production, industrial firefighting, scientific research 
and other fields. The aim is to help improve productivity and safety, and provide standardized temperature sensors 
for industrial quality control and multidisciplinary basic research. 
PTZ cameras for high-precision positioning: PTZ cameras for high-precision positioning, powered by dual 
closed-loop optical image stabilization technology (collaborative control by motor + encoder), plus space perception 
and attitude perception modules, can locate a fire point within a distance of 3km, with an accuracy of ≤50m (based 
on test data in Tai'an project). This provides a solid foundation for precise positioning and rescue decisions in the 
early stages of the fire.  The full -scenario, self -cleaning system features innovative semiconductor -based 
condensation water spraying technology that enables air -to-water and remote control of wiper cleaning. This 
effectively mitigates imaging blur caused by lens contaminants, ensuring consistent image clarity in diverse 
environmental conditions. The prod uct is equipped with a one -button calibration system to reduce the manual 
calibration of fire points, greatly shorten the equipment debugging cycle, and lower installation and debugging costs. 
In outdoor fire prevention scenarios such as forest fire preven tion, it provides sound technical support for holistic 
risk management. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
28 
 
Linglong shortwave thermometers : In high -temperature processes such as steel rolling and single -crystal 
silicon growth furnaces, traditional temperature measuring equipment has shor tcomings such as bulky size and 
narrow field of view, resulting in inflexible deployment and large blind spots. The Linglong shortwave thermometer 
series developed by HikMicro has a weight reduction of more than 30% and a larger field of view. With two-color 
infrared technology, it measures temperature over a wide range of 300~3200 ℃. Also, the AI -ISP is applied to 
address overexposure and color cast in high/low temperature settings and restore the true color and details of molten 
pools and crystal growth fu rnace thermal fields, thus assisting with accurate judgment during manufacturing 
processes. 
Anti-fouling and high -temperature-resistant thermal detector -imagers: In view of mold release agent 
spray failure caused by oil mist pollution and uneven temperature field on the mold surface in the die-casting process, 
the anti-fouling and high -temperature-resistant thermal detector -imagers use non -contact, real-time temperature 
field imaging to rapidly locate cold and hot defects on molds, ensuring precise temperat ure control and improved 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
29 
productivity. The mechanical protection cover (which opens only at the time of temperature measuring) and high -
pressure airtight anti -fouling technology are intended to prevent oil mist intrusion; coupled with the detachable 
germanium sheet protection layer and air cooling system, the device is suitable for long -term operation in a high-
temperature environment of 150°C with a long service life. It is expected to increase the yield rate and standardize 
processes in scenarios like die-casting the structural components of new energy vehicles (NEVs). 
Microscopic thermal detector-imagers: HikMicro's microscopic thermal detector -imagers are designed to 
monitor the temperature field of micron -level targets (such as solder joints of electron ic components and melting 
points of optical fibers). With one -button switch between regular/macro modes, the device supports a minimum 
detection distance of 35μm (about 1/3 the diameter of a hair), and can quickly change the observation scale without 
removing the lens; ±1°C or ±1% high-precision temperature measurement (with a range of -20~150°C) and 8-hour 
continuous, adaptive, block -free environmental data acquisition reduce the possibility of missing data frames. 
Integrated with real-time/offline analysis and one-click generation of standardized reports, the device can serve as 
a standardized temperature perception tool for multidisciplinary basic research and industrial quality control in 
fields such as electronic information, materials, biomedicine, chemistry, and electricity. 
 
Flame detectors for industrial fire protection: Industrial fire protection has higher requirements for detection 
accuracy, response time, protection, stability and other metrics. With ongoing efforts to develop more flame 
detection methods and improve detection accuracy, HikFire has launched flame dete ctors for the purpose of 
industrial fire prevention. Using multi -dimensional perception + video, the solution can accurately detect the 
temperature, smoke, flame and other features of different objects when they burn, and eliminate false alarms caused 
by t ypical industrial production conditions such as high temperature. In particular, infrared imaging -based fire 
detectors enable intelligent fire identification with higher accuracy (0.1m 2 fire panel, within a distance of up to 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
30 
150m), and the false alarm rate is reduced by more than 30%.  Three-band infrared flame detectors can accurately 
detect the combustion of organic matter against environmental interference such as sunlight. Therefore, they may 
be further applied to semi -outdoor and outdoor settings such a s industrial storage tank areas and rail platforms. 
Infrared-ultraviolet fusion flame detectors, which can perceive the 4 -micron band of the combustion of special 
materials such as metals, are suitable for sheet metal processing, electric welding, hot work and other uses. 
Industrial shortwave infrared cameras:  HikRobot's industrial shortwave infrared camera is a high -
performance industrial infrared camera equipped with an InGaAs sensor. Thanks to its wide coverage from 400nm-
1700nm visible light to shortwave bands, one camera can meet the need for both visible light and shortwave infrared 
detection, coupled with lower system costs, higher processing speed, and a broader detection range. The camera is 
equipped with multiple image pre -processing functions and  also a TEC (thermo electric cooler) to maintain its 
temperature below room temperature 25℃, thus reducing the noise of prolonged operation and long exposure and 
ensuring image quality. Moreover, with a number of trigger modes and incident outputs supporte d, the solution 
flexibly adapts to different industrial settings spanning new energy, semiconductors, laser spots, agriculture, food 
and medicine, material sorting, printing and other industries. 
2.1.4 X-ray perception 
An X-ray is a form of high -energy electromagnetic radiation with an extremely short wavelength and it is 
highly penetrating. Given the different absorption of X -rays by materials, the radiation can clearly distinguish 
minute size variations and subtle structural changes for the purpose of hig h-precision detection. Leveraging its 
extensive expertise in radioscopic testing in industrial production, the Company has developed high -precision 
radioscopic detection capabilities ranging from macro (millimeter level) to micro (micron level), from 2D imaging 
to 3D imaging, and launched products around its two key businesses - component counting and defect detection, in 
an effort to help customers improve detection quality, enhance detection efficiency, and strengthen management. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
31 
 
X-ray component counters: In an efficiently operating SMT (surface mount technology) workshop, accurate 
component counting is essential to the efficiency and accuracy of electronics assembly. Due to the wide variety and 
large quantity of components, traditional manual counting is not only time-consuming and labor-intensive, but also 
prone to errors and omissions. HikRayin's X-ray intelligent counter can finish counting four trays of components in 
8 seconds, with an accuracy of up to 99.99%. The counting outcomes may be connected to MES to enable multi-
dimensional control over factory production data, contributing to the intelligent transformation of warehousing. 
  
X-ray defect detectors : Taking the quality inspection of integrated circuits in NEVs as an example, 
conventional 2D detection cannot identify defects in the circuit board welding process (such as Head -in-Pillow in 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
32 
BGA and immersion tin in PTH) due to imaging interference; and due to the high output, large batches, and stringent 
inspection requirements, traditional sampling often takes a long time. HikRayin's online 3D CT inspection device 
employs three-dimensional imaging technology to perform 360 -degree radioscopic imaging and cross-sectional 
analysis both globally and locally. This allows for the intuitive discovery of defects and their locations. When 
combined with a fast detection algorithm, the solution is able to detect defects in an efficient and automatic manner. 
 
When i t comes to the production of vehicle sensors, it is important to detect defects in internal sensing 
components, but due to plastic housings, it is impossible to identify them with the naked eye. However, the 
combination of X-ray high-definition radioscopic imaging and AI algorithms can show whether the needles inside 
are skewed or incompliant in length. By automatically detecting faults in batches and removing faulty items, the 
solution greatly improves detection efficiency and overcomes the challenge of co mplicated and inefficient human 
detection. Based on a customized barcode scanning function, the barcode of each component is linked to its X-ray 
image to allow for the tracking and tracing of defective products, as an effective approach to ensuring high-quality 
production. 
X-ray foreign matter detectors: Food safety has always been a topic of great social concern. For example, it 
is difficult to identify tiny bone fragments during the quality control of chicken breast.  HikRayin's X-ray dual-
energy intelligent foreign matter detection system employs X -ray detection, the new Raytina image enhancement 
engine, artificial intelligence technology and a dual-energy detection algorithm to detect the density and substance 
of a product and accurately identify bone fra gments. Paired with an automated removal system, the efficient 
detection solution serves as a booster for productivity and quality assurance in factories. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
33 
 
2.1.5 Spectral fusion perception 
Harnessing its full -spectrum sensing technology, Hikvision has established a material composition analysis 
and detection system that identifies the type of a material, detects its safety, and identifies environmental pollution 
through a qualitative and qua ntitative analysis of the composition, structure, and properties of the material. By 
advancing the visible light and multi -spectral fusion technology, the Company drives the digital upgrade of 
environmental monitoring and production quality control through  full-domain sensing capabilities, and helps 
customers improve production processes and productivity. In 2024, Hikvision continued to expand its spectral 
product portfolio by launching a new color detection range and miniaturized TDLAS (tunable diode laser absorption 
spectroscopy) products designed specifically for industrial enterprises, contributing to improved production 
processes and higher production safety.  
Color detection: In the manufacturing process, color detection, as a key stage for product qua lity control, 
quantifies color differences to check if products meet standards. Hikvision has launched two series of color detection 
products. The automatic liquid absorbance analyzer acquires the absorption spectrum of a liquid through spectral 
analysis and detects the concentration, dyeing rate and other related information during production to resolve the 
problem of invisible and undetectable black box processes such as textile vat dyeing and ink feeding and help control 
the quality of the production pro cess. The area -array multi-spectral color and color difference detection system, 
based on the spectral calculation and analysis technology, performs accurate color and color difference detection 
that is not influenced by the observation angle, light source  type, or metamerism. The acquisition speed of 30fps 
ensures high image acquisition capabilities. The system is equipped with an edge processing and computing 
platform and supports both online and offline processing. It is used for color quality control of  devices before 
delivery, color consistency control of dyes and coatings, as well as food appearance quality inspection, classification 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
34 
and quality control of textiles before delivery. Through the simultaneous detection of multiple samples, it greatly 
improves the efficiency of quality inspection. 
 
Gas monitoring: Hikvision provides a multi-faceted and multi-scenario gas monitoring product matrix - from 
economical products that analyze a single gas to premium products that apply to hundreds of gases - to address the 
challenge of gas leak detection and positioning in industries such as petroleum, chemical, and natural gas. In 2024, 
the Company introduced a new non -explosion-proof TDLAS product for methane monitoring by industrial and 
commercial enterprises l ike tobacco and textile manufacturers. Featuring a 4kg lightweight and easy -to-deploy 
model, it can detect methane leaks within 50m, monitor leaks in real time online, and transmit information back to 
the gas leak monitoring platform to guarantee productio n safety. A four -in-one portable gas monitor has been 
introduced to ensure personal safety in industrial production and gas detection. The device, which is directly worn 
on the chest of staff, will promptly notify administrators to take the appropriate pro tective measures when the 
concentration of the released gas on site reaches the preset value. It is suitable for emergencies such as fire rescue, 
process monitoring such as industrial experiment, and industrial environmental safety monitoring for productio n 
workers. 
Environmental surveillance: Hikvision is committed to environmental preservation. The hyperspectral water 
quality monitor is equipped with a full-spectrum fill light to enable all-weather contactless water quality monitoring, 
which requires no r eagents and generates a response in seconds, for monitoring related to hydrology and water 
conservancy, including hydrological stations, rivers, and lakes. The system can be connected to a platform for 
intelligent analysis of water quality changes, and also to dome cameras for real-time monitoring of the surrounding 
environment to help the water environment stay clean for a longer time. For vegetation monitoring, the multispectral 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
35 
vegetation monitor provides an "intelligent physical examination" for vegetation around the clock, with a 32x optical 
magnification. It clearly monitors everything from a vast farmland to a single plant. The solution protects vegetation 
health through tree and farmland monitoring, ensures marine safety through floating objects and algae identification, 
and helps promote the digital upgrade of agriculture and forestry by providing intuitive access to vegetation growth 
trends via all-weather real-time high-frequency monitoring. 
Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography: With it, the composition and content of a wide range of 
industrial products and food can be determined through a single test. The organic components in a sample are first 
separated according to the chromatographic separation theory prior to testing. Then the organic matters contained 
in the sample as well as the content of each component are detected with higher efficiency. Most trace compounds 
that contain a substance less than 1 ppm can be detected quickly and accurately. For example, if 1mL of beverage 
is diluted in 1,000mL of water, the composition and content of the beverage can be quickly known with the help of 
ultra-high performance liquid chromatography. By reducing the sample separation time, the high-performance and 
efficient material separation and analysis technology enables the faster detection of composition and content. 
Spectral fusion-based rapid coal quality analyzers:  The Company has pioneered in introducing spectral 
fusion technology to coal quality analysis. Given that near -infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) has a good response to 
molecules in coal, and X-ray fluorescence (XRF) has a good response to atoms in coal, the solution has combined 
the two sensing approaches and also included artificial intelligence algorithms. It can detect the calorific value, total 
sulfur, ash content, total water and other indicators of a 6mm coal sample online and obtain the test results of 
sampled coal in just 2 minutes.  Now the solution has been used in a wide range of scenarios such as coal wash 
plants, ports, and power plants by companies such as Hebei Company, Zhejiang Company, Port Company, Shendong 
Coal, and Shengli Energy of the CHN Energy Group. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
36 
2.1.6 Laser perception 
Hikvision boasts a wide range of laser perception products, encompassing laser sensors, fi ber optic sensors, 
and LiDARs. 
The Company has focused on laser profile sensors and extended to point laser displacement sensors, 2K/3K/4K 
series laser profile sensors, and galvo laser stereo cameras. This leads to a complete range of full -stack 3D high-
precision detection and vision guidance solutions featuring dynamic + static and point + line + surface. Moreover, 
ToF single-point ranging sensors and area-array ToF (time of fly) stereo cameras based on VCSEL (vertical-cavity 
surface-emitting laser) and th e time-of-flight principle have been launched. With uses in the fields of industrial 
sensing and stereo perception, these products have further expanded the application scope of laser perception. 
Laser displacement sensors: Using high-precision and high-frame-rate laser scanning technology, the sensor 
can simultaneously measure the displacement, height or height difference of multiple points of a target object, obtain 
accurate data on multiple measurement points in real time, and quickly acquire the geometric features of the target 
object, such as step height, gap width, relative position, and so on, while suppressing secondary reflection 
interference. This optimal solution for precision measurement is widely used in product contour detection, quality 
control and automated assembly, such as the measurement of auto connector pins and chip capacitance/ resistance 
and thickness of printed circuit boards. 
Laser profile sensors: For high-precision measurement, the sensor has a built-in high-precision 3D algorithm 
in the hardware to produce point cloud data, depth map and brightness map data with a high frame rate and micron-
level precision in real time, collect the three -dimensional profile information of a target object, and enable three -
dimensional measurement and detection such as flatness, warping, segment gap and surface profile. The 2K, 3K 
and 4K series have been launched to suit different application scenarios. Combining the sensors with the Vision 
Master 3D algorithm platform, Hikvision has developed solutio ns for a number of complex applications. These 
solutions are extensively used in online, non-contact, and high-precision 3D measurement scenarios in the PCB, 3C, 
lithium-ion battery, and other sectors. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
37 
Galvo laser stereo cameras:  Using galvo laser technology, the camera integrates high -performance optical 
systems, high-performance processing chips, and high-strength materials to enable high-precision and high-stability 
3D imaging under a variety of working conditions with interfer ence such as light absorption, high reflection, and 
ambient light. This range includes several models for short -, medium- and near-distance detection, suitable for 
typical applications like parts, workpieces, material frames, and pallets. Combined with the  robot 3D vision 
guidance platform, it is widely used in vehicles, auto parts, heavy industry, home appliances, photovoltaics and 
other sectors to drive industrial upgrading. 
ToF single-point ranging sensors: The sensor, which is based on the time -of-flight principle, can detect a 
variety of materials and scenes across long distances with the use of lasers and point light spots. Its core advantages 
include fast response and high -precision measurement, which ensures stable operation in complex environments. 
With strong resistance to ambient light interference, the solution is widely used in sectors such as robotics, logistics, 
and production safety, significantly enhancing production efficiency and safety. 
Area-array ToF stereo cameras: The camera features high resolution, high precision and fast response. It is 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
38 
designed to obtain the complete three-dimensional geometric information of a target object in real time. It may also 
be applied outdoor within a certain distance. In the field of industrial automation,  the camera can be used for 
environmental perception, navigation and obstacle avoidance, material counting, three -dimensional object 
recognition and others;  in the logistics industry, it can be used for parcel volume measurement, volumetric 
measurement, guided parcel induction and other applications. In addition, it is suitable for intelligent applications 
such as three-dimensional reconstruction and gesture recognition. 
With distributed positioning optical fiber products as the starting point, Hikvision co ntinues to enhance its 
development capabilities surrounding core laser devices and optics -related embedded software, and gradually 
expands the family of distributed positioning optical fibers for vibration sensing, temperature measurement, and 
auscultation. In addition, the Company has launched a point-type fiber Bragg grating demodulator for real-time and 
accurate monitoring of physical attributes such as load and temperature. 
Fiber Bragg grating demodulators: The product performs point-type high-precision monitoring based on the 
fiber Bragg grating principle. It monitors minor changes in various physical quantities in real time by connecting to 
different sensors. For example, it can monitor the load of wind turbine blades when combined with strain sensors,  
and the temperature of high -voltage switch cabinets when combined with temperature sensors. With exceptional 
resistance to interference, intrinsic safety, and passive front end, it protects equipment safety through 24/7 stable 
monitoring in complicated electromagnetic environments. 
 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
39 
Distributed positioning optical fibers for vibration sensing: Hikvision has introduced a new cost-efficient 
product for perimeter intrusion prevention in restricted areas. Along with video technology and a false alarm 
reduction algorithm, it offers a multi-dimensional perception and perimeter monitoring solution, promoting the use 
of vibration detecting optical fibers for perimeter security.  A multi-channel positioning optical fiber for vibration 
sensing has been introduced to provide continued monitoring and guard against external damage to operators' 
communication networks and oil and gas pipelines, with lower single -channel monitoring costs. The optical fiber 
may also be coupled with a specific algorithm for avoiding external  damage to intelligently identify the type of 
damage. The product has now been put into use in the optical cable external damage prevention project of Fuzhou 
subsidiary of China Telecom to protect on-site safety through precise vibration perception. 
Distributed positioning optical fibers for temperature measurement:  Hikvision has been continuously 
expanding the range in order to adapt to more settings. A 10km fire certification model is offered for scenarios that 
require fire certification, such as fire protection, petrochemical, metro tracks, tunnels and pipe galleries. An intrinsic-
safety mining model is available for usage in coal mines and other environments; besides a professional mining 
certification, it can directly interact with a visualized host underground, efficient and safe. For applications such as 
power distribution cabinets and energy storage cabinets that do not require a long distance, there is a 2.5km short-
distance economic model featuring a modular design; lighter and smaller, it can be di rectly pre -installed in 
equipment and function as an intelligent monitoring system for the equipment. 
Distributed positioning optical fibers for auscultation: For belt roller monitoring in industries such as coal, 
steel, ports, cement, and thermal power, each single-channel optical fiber auscultation device can inspect a 1.2km 
long belt. The device is integrated with the HIK-DAS patented acoustic detection algorithm and an AI recognition 
algorithm to precisely pinpoint any abnormal roller position and aut omatically identify the fault among common 
roller faults. This improves the efficiency of belt operation and maintenance (O&M) through real -time remote 
monitoring. The product has been used in many large projects. For example, Nanjing Steel Group Co., Ltd.  has 
applied distributed positioning optical fibers for auscultation to perform all-weather inspections on over 3,000 belt 
rollers, in order to ensure the efficient operation of the transportation system at the steel mill.  
LiDAR performs non -contact measu rement and environmental perception by emitting laser beams and 
receiving reflected signals. Thanks to laser's short wavelength, narrow emission angle, and minimal multipath effect, 
LiDAR features high measurement accuracy, high resolution, and outstanding  shape recognition, and has been 
widely used in various industries. In the industrial sector, Hikvision has launched a series of products such as single-
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
40 
line, 4-line, 16-line, 32-line, and 96-line LiDARs, which are applied to perimeter intrusion prevention in designated 
operating areas, obstacle avoidance of large operating machinery, obstacle avoidance and navigation of 
AGVs/forklifts, three-dimensional volume measurement, container grabbing by port machinery, and unmanned 
loading by robotic arms, to contribute to industrial automation and intelligent upgrades. In the field of transportation, 
the high-precision and high-resolution three-dimensional point cloud data produced by LiDAR serves as a powerful 
perception tool for intelligent traffic management. 
Scanning & imaging LiDARs:  With a 98% accuracy rate in volume measurement, the LiDAR can create 
high-precision models with 70,000 valid sample points per second. Thanks to its advantages such as high-precision 
measurement, three-dimensional imaging and multi-functional integration, it supports static target detection within 
a spatial range, i.e., measures accurately and in real time the shape, volume, and level of bulk solids, powders, and 
other materials. It is mostly used in warehouses with high inventory accuracy. It can also be applied to robotic arm 
control settings for the key control point scanning and global coordinate detection of gripped objects or vehicle 
targets. Hikvision is also the first to apply large model technology to three-dimensional volume imaging in order to 
identify and remove vehicles, operating machinery and other targets in the scene and to mitigate interference with 
volume measurement accuracy. Additionally, the solution has a window design to lessen the effect of ambient dust 
on the measurement outcomes. 
 
Long-distance single-line LiDARs: Automatic gain control technology is used to eliminate the accuracy error 
caused by scanning high-reflective materials. This significantly improves the performance of LiDAR in scenarios 
such as steel coil positioning and automatic picking, container shape  recognition and alignment. The innovative 
circuit design has led to an industry -leading speed resolution ratio and a ±2cm ranging accuracy, ensuring better 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
41 
performance in the shape and contour recognition of large objects like ship loaders and unloaders as well as material 
particle size recognition. The product's capacity to adapt to challenging situations like dust and water mist has 
significantly increased thanks to system-level optimization in hardware circuits, software, and algorithms. 
LiDAR-video int egrated devices:  Primarily used for measuring vehicle length, width, and height and 
identifying vehicle model and license plate, the product adopts an intensive design to resolve vehicle model data 
matching errors caused by separate wiring and networking a s well as timing errors in the "laser + video" split 
solution. In addition, GMOS sensor + intelligent vision algorithm is used to prevent false alarms and improve the 
accuracy of vehicle model and license plate recognition. 
 
2.1.7 Acoustic wave perception 
Harnessing its acoustical device R&D capabilities and professional algorithm team, Hikvision has developed 
superior acoustic wave perception technology and products that are widely used in the industrial field. In 2024, the 
Company released a new ultrasonic product range as well as an online soundprint monitoring system for substation 
equipment. These more accurate solutions for process quality inspection and equipment and facility O&M 
management demonstrate the Company's commitment to special-purpose scenarios. 
Non-destructive phased array ultrasonic testing : Phased array ultrasonic testing can be used to check for 
internal welds, holes, bubbles and other defects in the early stages of production and manufacturing of parts such as 
pipes, bars, plates, fan blades, NEV water cooling plates and motor cylinders. The solution has flexible control over 
the beam through electronic deflection and focusing.  Hikvision has introduced a full range of ultrasonic testing 
products, including standalone three -axis automate d detection systems, portable ultrasonic, linear automated 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
42 
scanning devices, as well as phased array ultrasonic boards with integratable, built -in AI analysis capabilities and 
probes of different forms and purposes, which are suitable for a variety of scen arios. Additionally employed is an 
AI-based defect identification mechanism that incorporates a number of defect models. As a result, the solution 
allows for intelligent scanning and synchronous output of detection results, together with the recording of d efect 
types. Also, it supports image-based review as well as periodic defect analysis and optimization. While lowering 
the operating threshold, the solution improves both monitoring efficiency and production quality. 
 
Online soundprint monitoring products: The online acoustic imager combines ultrasonic arrays and optical 
lenses with a sound localization algorithm to monitor faults and visualize sound, as a way of supporting the detection 
of partial discharge and gas leaks in crucial equipment in substations, power plants, factory pipe galleries, and valve 
chambers. Hikvision has introduced a new State Grid-certified online soundprint monitoring kit to help the customer 
monitor partial discharges of substation equipment. Each host is paired with three measur ement-purpose 
microphones for efficient, real-time monitoring. An AI-based diagnostic algorithm is applied to determine the fault 
type, and data access and traceability are made possible on a dedicated platform to guarantee substation safety. 
Sound, vibrat ion and temperature monitoring products:  Hikvision's sound, vibration and temperature 
monitoring range integrates the three-modal data of sound waves, vibration and temperature to perform long-term, 
multi-dimensional data monitoring of dynamic equipment such as pumps, motors, and wind turbines. AI algorithms 
are also used for equipment health assessment and fault diagnosis. The O&M platform employs three-dimensional 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
43 
modeling technology to build equipment models for remote immersive O&M management. 
Ultrasonic flow meters:  HikMicro's ultrasonic flow meter has creatively integrated the Doppler and time 
difference methods into one, in contrast to conventional devices that are based on a single measurement principle. 
Through adaptive switches depending on the cleanliness of fluids, it eliminates the impact of foam and solid particles 
in the fluid on the flow measurement accuracy in industrial settings. According to the diameter, wall thickness and 
material of different pipelines on the site, the ultrasonic flow meter can perform automatic scanning and select the 
optimal detection frequency of the pipeline without manual correction. This makes it appropriate for a range of 
operating conditions. Compared with pipe segment flow meters, the clamp design allows for non -contact 
measurement and eliminates the need for downtime during pipe cutting and installation. This effectively cuts 
installation and maintenance costs in scenarios with large pipeline diameters and high sealing requirements. Now 
the solution has been used  for flow measurement in a variety of applications, including water treatment, energy 
metering, and production control in the power generation, water, steel, and chemical sectors. 
2.1.8 Other physical sensing solutions 
Using its multi -dimensional physical sensing technologies, including electromagnetic, thermal, and 
piezoresistance, the Company has developed a measuring technology system encompassing electromagnetic, mass, 
pressure, and so on in the area of industrial process perception. It continues to pus h the limits of high -precision 
perception against complex media and strong interference through hardware innovation and algorithm -based 
optimization, meeting the demands of high -precision measurement in sectors like pharmaceuticals, food and 
beverage, and petrochemicals. 
Electromagnetic flow meters:  HikMicro's electromagnetic flow meter has further improved its ability to 
perceive and process tiny signals (small flow, low conductivity) through hardware optimization and algorithm co-
design. Multi-frequency excitation technology, combined with different frequency bands, enables noise immunity, 
zero stability and faster response, guaranteeing stability in high -concentration slurry measurement scenarios such 
as coal slurry and papermaking. A cutting-edge tiny signal extraction algorithm is used to convert tiny flow signals 
into accurate and reliable flow values, making small flow measurement more accurate. With a minimum 
conductivity of 1μS/cm, the solution is suitable for measurement in sectors of pharmaceuticals, food and beverages, 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
44 
pure water, deionized water, and more. 
Mass flow meters:  HikMicro's mass flow meter, based on the proprietary full digital solution technology, 
offers 8,000 times/second sampling and operation together with a significantly reduced reaction time, guaranteeing 
consistent results even for tiny batch samples and sh ort filling periods. With a 0.1% accuracy, the flow meter is 
widely used for measuring the mass flow, volume flow and concentration of liquid and gas in trade settlement, 
proportioning and metering, precision control and other scenarios across the petroche mical, food and beverages, 
pharmaceutical and other industries. 
Pressure transmitters: HikMicro's pressure transmitter is based on high-precision silicon technology with an 
accuracy of up to ±0.05%. The ultra-thin film, special structure design, high-precision stress control process coupled 
with a real-time compensation algorithm, lead to a minimum micro differential pressure measurement of ±50pa. 
The dual overload protection diaphragm design makes the transmitter safer. The overload resistance up to 1,166 
times the range and 100:1 range ratio provide wider adaptability, making it suitable for measuring various gas 
pipelines, liquid pipelines, gas buffer tanks, liquid storage tanks and more. 
2.2 Hardware Product Family: Comprehensive Edge Node Perception + Edge Domain Scenario Intelligence 
+ Central Intelligent Storage and Computing 
In addition to launching new digital products, Hikvision has continuously promoted technological innovation 
and breakthroughs in different segments such as edge nodes, edge domain s, and cloud centers, and expanded its 
product family to better meet the needs of customers in various industries. 
2.2.1 Edge node products: comprehensive perception and growing product mix 
In terms of perception products, Hikvision has constructed a diver se and competitive product matrix that 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
45 
provides solid support for numerous industry applications by consolidating its technological advantages and 
improving its IoT perception capabilities. 
1) Front-end cameras 
Hikvision's front-end cameras are centered on the AIoT business. Driven by technological innovation and 
scenario-specific requirements, the Company focuses on innovation in three domains: large vision model, multi -
camera full FOV, and adaptive, intelligent O&M. 
Large vision model: While improving the incident detection sensitivity and accuracy, large models can also 
greatly reduce the difficulty of adaptation and deployment, expand the application scope of products, and meet the 
specific needs of various industry scenarios; also, the scenario -based learning ability offered by large models is 
expected to optimize image quality. Multi-camera full FOV: Technologies such as horizontal and vertical splicing 
break the limitations of traditional field of view and enable panoramic coverage and intelligent linka ge between 
different scenes. Adaptive, intelligent O&M: Adaptive and intelligent O&M cameras are developed through 
innovation in technology, materials and processes, which greatly reduces the cost of manual maintenance. 
 
Based on the Hikvision Guanlan large model technology system, the Company has developed large vision 
model cameras that are better suited for AIoT scenarios by designing model structures with consideration for model 
lightweight, computing efficiency enhancement, and computing resource s aving. The large vision model camera 
has overcome the challenges like weak universality, difficult recognition of complex targets, complex O&M 
debugging, and lengthy algorithm customization cycles. With many benefits such as strong generalization, high 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
46 
performance ceiling, powerful scene comprehension, and fast deployment, it allows for the intelligent recognition 
of more targets, improves sensitivity, accuracy, and deployment convenience, and enhances image quality. 
Leveraging its extensive expertise in te chnology and products, Hikvision has developed a range of large vision 
model cameras that have been applied in several scenarios such as intelligent perimeter detection, incident detection, 
equipment and facility inspection, helping users improve quality, reduce costs, and increase efficiency. 
 
Large vision model: accurate and timely incident detection 
During the actual usage of cameras, different scenes, lighting conditions, and weather may generate a large 
number of false alarms, resulting in increased O&M costs and reduced user trust in cameras' response. The Company 
has employed its abundant industry expertise to develop a large pre-training model and added data on various real-
world, dynamic scenes (such as rain, snow, fog, strong light flashing, animal movement, and vibration) in the pre-
training phase to remove interference factors in incident detection. Moreover, large models' excellent generalization 
and sensitive detection of difficult targets allow for a high detection rate and high accuracy durin g the intelligent 
recognition of different targets.  
For the purpose of perimeter detection, compared with traditional video devices, the large model -based 
perimeter detection cameras provide a longer recognition distance and an over 90% reduction in false  alarms 
(according to measured data in projects). So far, the Company has developed a complete range of large model-based 
perimeter detection cameras such as monocular cameras, multi-lens cameras, and dome cameras. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
47 
Large vision model: flexible detection, versatile application 
The implementation of traditional intelligent products necessitates the training of distinct recognition 
algorithms for various targets, presenting challenges such as high sampling expenses, low scalability, and long 
training cycles. Hikvision's front-end camera has been integrated with an open-source large target detection model 
on the end side. Combined with comprehension of a variety of segmented scenes, the camera calls standardized 
modules for rapid configuration. This allows for "zero-shot" detection and agile deployment with higher detection 
precision in applications such as guarding, garbage detection, safety helmet detection, work uniform detection, and 
fire engine access occupancy detection. Moreover, the out -of-the-box desig n enhances the customer and user 
experience. 
Large vision model: situational learning, enhanced image quality 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
48 
Hikvision's large vision model camera, powered by a deep fusion of "hardware + algorithm," can improve 
image quality in low -light and strong-interference settings through situational understanding.  Its benefits include 
professional large aperture lenses and high-sensitivity sensors. Leveraging its expertise in low-illumination scenes, 
the Company has developed an end-to-end intelligent large model algorithm to effectively distinguish signals from 
noise in images, accurately remove noise, and improve the signal -to-noise ratio of night vision images. Based on 
targeted training for scenes such as heavy rain, haze, overexposure, and color cast, the solution also supports scene-
defined image quality featuring more details and more true -to-life colors, providing better video images for 
intelligent applications. 
Multi-camera full FOV: flexible splicing, pushing FOV limits 
In addition to large mo del capabilities, Hikvision insists on developing multi -directional, multi -camera 
solutions, expanding the boundaries of FOV through technological innovation. Its multi -camera lineup, which 
includes 720°  panoramic cameras, blind spot-free eagle eye cameras , and ultra -HD splicing cameras, features 
flexible splicing in different directions, flexible viewing in multiple angles, and high adaptability in varied scenarios. 
By flexibly adapting these solutions to various settings, Hikvision is committed to providing customers with more 
accurate and broader monitoring FOVs, as well as robust assistance for developing an all-around, multi-level visual 
perception system.  

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
49 
Adaptive, intelligent O&M: reduced O&M expenses, improved adaptability 
In response to customers' and users' scene -based demands as well as expectations for O&M -free products, 
Hikvision continues to enhance the intelligent adjustability and scene adaptability of products and mitigate O&M 
pressure through innovative processes and technologies such as hy drophobic coating, nano masking, and cyclone 
dust removal. The Company has introduced a series of new products such as spider-web-free cameras, anti-freezing 
cameras, anti-oil cameras, self-cleaning and dust removal cameras, and self -cleaning cameras to satisfy scenario-
specific demands and lower customers' O&M costs. 
 
2) Intelligent transportation and mobility products 
Hikvision has established a large intelligent transporation model dedicated to industry-specific scenarios based 
on its years of experience in the intelligent transportation sector as well as its Guanlan large model technology 
system. 
Large intelligent transportation model-based capture units: For traffic violation detection, the Company 
has released an eco-friendly 12-megapixel capture unit that is integrated with large model algorithms. Its new 1.1-
inch image sensor greatly expands the vertical dimension of the images captured and increases picture details. The 
solution effectively resolves the limitations of the previous generation of traffi c enforcement cameras and 
checkpoints. A single device is enough to capture large/small vehicles and non -motor vehicles, or large vehicle 
details + panoramic views, plus richer features in photos of vehicle windows. Supported by the large vision model 
technology, the product has made a substantial progress in the analysis of occupant violations (e.g., failure to wear 
seat belts, and using a mobile phone while driving). The accuracy of seat belt and phone detection has been greatly 
raised, with a 75% decrease in the false detection rate. Moreover, it has also made significant improvements in sub-

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
50 
segments such as helmet detection for non-motor vehicle drivers, and vehicle feature detection for dangerous goods 
vehicles and dregs transportation trucks. 
 
Large intelligent transportation model-based incident detection products:  The Company has built data 
models dedicated to industrial scenarios such as road incidents and integrated them with intelligent hardware to 
accurately detect abnormal road incidents. The ne w-generation incident detection products include radar -video 
fused devices, smart cameras, and servers. Based on its Guanlan large model system, Hikvision performs industry 
expertise pre-training and fine-tuning to infuse expert-level incident detection capabilities into the large intelligent 
transportation model. Compared with the conventional convolutional neural network algorithm in the industry, the 
model based on the Transformer architecture features a deeper network architecture as well as better capabilities of 
global feature extraction, context modeling and generalization. Also, the false alarm rate of incidents under harsh 
conditions such as low contrast, occlusion, and complex postures is reduced by more than 60%. These improvements 
lead to a comprehensive upgrade of product benefits. In the future, the Company will continue to research on the 
large model technology and utilize the image and text understanding and inference capabilities of the Guanlan 
multimodal large model to expand the application of its products in various traffic scenarios and fuel the intelligent 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
51 
upgrade of the industry. 
Intelligent signal control systems: In the field of intelligent traffic signal control, the Company has continued 
to enhance its technological advantages across the industrial chain, including perception equipment, intelligent 
algorithms, and control devices. While iterating its radar -video assisted vehicle inspection devices, it has also 
optimized its traffic parameter collection function.  Regarding system delivery, Hikvision has introduced an 
automated configuration mechanism to make setup and debugging more efficient. Taking the radar -video assisted 
vehicle inspection device as an example, the new radar -vision fusion algorithm removes the need for radar 
configuration and debugging by automatically mapping the visual configuration to the radar. As a result, the 
debugging time of a radar -video assisted vehicle inspection device is shortened from 35 -40 minutes to about 5 
minutes. Thanks to the Company's in -house signal control algorithm, the radar -video assisted vehicle inspection 
device is undergoing iteration and optimization. The collection  accuracy of information such as vehicle flow and 
queue length required for signal control is greatly improved, making signal control timing more automated and 
intelligent. 
As part of its sustained efforts to empower digital and intelligent traffic, Hikvis ion has introduced ranges of 
traffic volume investigation, expressway toll inspection, non-motor vehicle control, and ship checkpoint, in a bid to 
ensure safe and smooth traffic by strengthening road traffic order management and road risk prevention and control. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
52 
Vehicle access and parking products: With intelligent video at its heart, Hikvision consistently improves its 
digital solutions, boosts user experience, and assists clients in making parking management more efficient.  Its 
products span a variety of segments, including vehicle access, parking lots, street parking, and others. In scenarios 
such as NEV parking space application management and transparent workshops in 4S stores, continuous efforts are 
spared to upgrade intensive and intelligent systems, enhance products' technical profile, and improve the efficiency 
and services of urban parking. 
Charging stations: With the boom of the NEV market, the significance of charging stations as infrastructure 
is growing. In order to maximize product performance and boost charging efficiency, Hikvision has continuously 
dedicated itself to the R&D of charging station technology and products. With a focus on portable chargers, AC 
charging piles and high -power fast chargers, it keeps improving charging management sys tems and solutions in 
both home charging and public charging scenarios, hoping to provide users with smarter, safer and more stable 
charging products through product and technological innovation. 
 
Mobile devices: In domains such as industrial wearables an d handheld PDAs, Hikvision continues 
advancing technological innovation and business applications.  In terms of industrial wearables, the Company 
has been actively engaged in sectors such as law enforcement, the workplace, and healthcare, and has made 
innovations in technical fields such as professional audio, multimodal image stabilization, and ultra -long battery 
life. Handheld PDAs, driven by advancements in AI technology, have embraced better barcode scanning 
performance and innovative application scenarios. The Company has launched a wide range of professional PDAs 
such as general -purpose intelligent OCR devices, devices made of anti -corrosion materials, video-based volume 
measurement devices, and ultra-small barcode recognition devices. In conjunction with online shopping malls and 
service platforms, we provide data collection, scene -based intelligent recognition and analysis capabilities for 
manufacturing, express and logistics, retail e -commerce, healthcare and public services, and other industries, 
thereby enhancing customers' digital management capabilities. In the domains of mobile portable devices, drones 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
53 
and defense products, we leverage AI capabilities and take into account scenario -specific demands to constantly 
iterate and improve products and solutions. 
  
3) Access control, intercom and alarm products 
Harnessing its extensive expertise in perception, connection, credentials and control technologies, the 
Company is actively engaged in service design and product innovation centered on personnel access, personnel 
status, code of conducts and compliance management in a wide variety of application environments from open to 
closed spaces. By constantly expanding the application of its products in segmented scenarios, it has established a 
scenario-based solution suite covering access control, attendance, visito rs, elevator control, building intercom, 
healthcare intercom, entrance and exit management, intrusion alarm, perimeter prevention, real-name management 
and office consumption.   

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
54 
Hikvision's access control products, represented by MinMoe, are a result of the integrated application of audio, 
video, multimodality and other basic technologies that are used to create products for digital and intelligent identity 
recognition and professional access management. The Company continues to enhance its two access control product 
systems - intelligent and traditional, covering all kinds of general and professional scenarios, and upgrades segment-
specific products and solutions with an array of new products such as those featuring compliance with national 
cryptographic standards, explosion resistance, violence resistance, and a distributed architecture, providing 
customers with more diverse solutions. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
55 
Hikvision's visual intercom products mark a step further towards the scenario-based intelligent application of 
audio and image technologies. The Company has improved its two -wire bus technology and released a series of 
products suitable for construction and renovation projects worldwide. Through the integration of subsystems such 
as intrusion alarm, elevator control, network cameras, and access control, it has combined community security with 
scene control to provide customers with one-stop solutions. Healthcare intercom and emergency intercom solutions 
are continuously iterated and optimized based on large multimodal models  to increase their uses in segmented 
industries. 
Hikvision's speed gates and turnstiles, as a result of continued br eakthroughs in technical fields such as 
equipment networking, space detection, motor control and materials and processes, provide customers  and users 
with a better installation/debugging/use experience, coupled with higher management efficiency and easier 
entrance/exit. In response to differentiated applications and market segments, the Company has developed four 
product ranges: Rigorous, Simplified, Traditional and Specialized, to meet the needs of different customer groups. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
56 
Hikvision continues to innovate detection technology for alarm products, and has released its first professional-
grade detector. Through ongoing research on wireless transmission and low-power technologies, it has developed 
new solutions for scenarios without electricity or networks.  Systems for indoor intrusion detection, outdoor 
perimeter detection, video detection and others are integrated to provide one -stop security management solutions 
and more valuable services for customers. The Company continues to expand its cloud service applications and 
offers exclusive application tools to different users, making product access more convenient, management more 
efficient, and O&M less stressful. 
 
4) Interactive audio products 
Hikvision has been devoted to considerable research in the realm of audio since 2016. Thanks to such efforts, 
it has developed three product systems: professional audio, broadcasting audio, and security audio.  It now boasts 
R&D capabilities ranging from acoustic construction, hardware, algorithms to systems, committed to the networked, 
intelligent, and array-based development of audio technology. With intelligent algorithms that push the boundaries 
of sound quality, it delivers a more convenient audio management and debugging experience and a one-stop digital 
audio solution. In 2024, Hikvision, leveraging its full -scenario audio technology matrix, was committed to the 
intelligent upgrade of audio in scenarios su ch as conferences, audio amplification for teaching purposes, and 
command centers. As a member of the High -Performance Audio Network (HAN) Transmission Technology 
Application Industry Alliance, the Company works with industry partners to promote the networ ked, digital 
transformation of audio in China. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
57 
 
Professional audio: 
Hikvision produces industry -leading hardware and software by using its intelligent production lines and 
internationally certified acoustic labs. It has released an audio product family including the 8000N flagship series, 
4000 dedicated series and 2000 general series. 
The 8000N flagship series, built on a full-link networked architecture, uses the in-house AES67 transmission 
protocol to enable low latency at the millisecond level and high-precision synchronization at the nanosecond level. 
It has thus established a full-process digital closed loop from signal acquisition, AI algorithm processing to sound 
amplification and output. The system has deeply integrated intelligent algorithms. Over 50 patented algorithms have 
been applied to enable sound localization, noise suppression and adaptive sound field control, significantly 
improving the voice clarity and sound field uniformity in complex settings. The 128 ceiling array microphone 
supports u ltra-long-distance audio pickup up to 10 meters with its 128 -MEMS super -large microphone array 
architecture. It effectively addresses complex noise interference in the environment through over 300 built -in 
stationary/non-stationary AI-based noise reduction algorithms. A single device supports local sound amplification 
and remote conferencing at the same time, and flexibly switches between conference modes without an audio 
processor. The array square tube microphone features a distinctive "1+6" array heterog eneous design, a built -in 
beamforming algorithm, and a horizontal beam angle that can switch among narrow, medium and wide, enabling 
accurate audio pickup over a long distance. Built on innovations and upgrades in audio transmission and processing 
technologies, the network array column speaker can accurately meet the requirements of diverse acoustic spaces 
like conference halls and multi-function rooms thanks to its unique single-body three-beam control and multi-device 
cascade connection and independent adjustment technology. The 8000N series has been applied in a wide range of 
high-end conference and classroom settings such as universities, group enterprises, and financial buildings. The 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
58 
Company has worked with the School of Continuing Education of Zhejian g University on the AIoT-Center - an 
intelligent application and joint training base to develop unfettered audio pickup and amplification solutions and 
deliver a new teaching experience.  
Broadcasting audio: 
Hikvision offers a complete set of scenario-based solutions and services centered on broadcasting audio, which 
are divided into three product ranges: analog broadcast, network broadcast, and explosion -proof broadcast. They 
can be outfitted with an intelligent broadcast management platform for unified management and maintenance. These 
solutions suit a wide range of business scenarios such as education and teaching, chain stores, group enterprises, 
and special-purpose settings. 
 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
59 
For school uses, the Company has developed a bi -switch listening backup system with analog network fault 
detection and two-way fast signal switching. The system has been applied in many schools  such as Yiyang No. 1 
Middle School and No. 1 Experimental School of Suqian Economic Development Zone, and showed reliable 
performance in several listening tests. Hikvision's intelligent broadcasting platform, which is designed to centrally 
manage broadcasting devices in different locations, has helped 72 schools in Henan Province with broadcasting 
networking and transformation fo r online collaboration and efficient management. For chain stores, a local 
simplified solution, a local premium solution and a Cloud Eyes unified management solution have been introduced 
to address single audio source playback management and difficult supervision, and provide chain store customers 
with exclusive scenario-based products and customized functions. A networking management solution that allows 
the headquarters to remotely supervise and centrally train its branches has been introduced for group c ompanies. 
With audio-video integrated surveillance and rapid response to incidents, a closed loop of management can be 
established to create a digital industrial park. For refining and chemical pipelines, special -purpose manufacturing 
and other scenarios, a range of explosion -proof and corrosion -resistant products are available. Explosion -proof 
column speakers have been applied together with explosion-proof cameras in the oil pipeline corridor of Qingdao 
Dongjiakou Port. The devices are centrally managed by a comprehensive security management platform to monitor 
scene safety in a timely manner. 
2.2.2 Edge domain products: empowerment of large models, upgraded AI capabilities of products 
Hikvision's edge domain products continue to embrace improved AI capabilities. Relying on the Guanlan large 
model technology system, Hikvision has advanced from large CV models to large multimodal models and 
consistently upgraded its products to meet the demands of various application scenarios and create more value for 
customers. 
1) Integrated devices for intelligent applications 
NVR - A core storage product for edge domain: 
Hikvision NVR insists on technology -driven product innovation. In response to the latest trends in the 
development of large model technology, the Company has deeply integrated large image and text multimodal 
models with large quantities of parameters and s amples with embedded intelligent hardware and released a range 
of Wensou (meaning text based search) storage products based on large multimodal models. These significant 
technological innovations have boosted the extensive application of large multimodal models in the security sector. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
60 
The Wensou storage products enable the cross-modal information search and retrieval of natural language and 
video images. By simply typing a sentence or a word, a user can find the target image in seconds, so that security 
video retracing is no long er limited to time and space as well as conventional alarm and other retrieval methods. 
This significantly increases the effectiveness of target and event searches, resulting in more intelligent and efficient 
security management. For example, you can enter a semantic description such as "a red electric scooter," "a white 
van," "riding an electric scooter without a helmet," "a bicycle," "a trolley," and "a puppy" in the search box to search 
for relevant targets. The search range is broad, including high-frequency targets in security settings such as people, 
motor vehicles, and non-motor vehicles. And it also supports feature searches such as specific items and target status. 
The range represents a breakthrough in applicatio n by fusing large multimodal model algorithms with 
embedded intelligent hardware. Platform -oriented model design, large and small model distillation, cross -layer 
mixed-precision quantization and other large model deployment technologies and innovative desi gn of embedded 
intelligent hardware are employed to apply large multimodal models to lightweight embedded hardware platforms 
and allow for the inclusive application of large multimodal model technology, so that more industries and users can 
benefit from the intelligence and convenience brought by large models. 
By using a large model perimeter protection algorithm that substantially improves the accuracy of video -
assisted perimeter intrusion detection, Hikvision NVR has advanced the application of fundamenta l intelligent 
security. Customers are satisfied with the more efficient and convenient search experience that the image search 
technology offers thanks to its innovation and optimization. 
With the prevalence of HD video surveillance, the storage space requ ired for video recording is growing. In 
2024, Hikvision launched a high -density NVR that incorporates cutting -edge technologies such as controller 
architecture, modular design, and intelligent sensor-based heat dissipation. The solution satisfies customer demand 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
61 
for HD and long -cycle video recording while also offering a bigger storage capacity, enhanced stability, and 
dependability, in addition to much better storage and network performance. 
Over the past dozens of years, Hikvision NVR has consistently driven product changes with advanced  
technology to generate more value for customers. The resulting diverse products can be applied to a wide range of 
intelligent security surveillance contexts. 
Hikvision DeepinMind - An intelligent computing product for edge domain: 
Hikvision offers a broad variety of intelligent computing products that encompass all scenarios from edge to 
domain center, with an aim to function as an edge domain brain. It continuously improves its six capabilities of 
"perception access, domain-end management, fusion and convergence, multi-dimensional storage, edge computing, 
and intelligent applications" and conducts extensive research on large visual and multimodal model technologies to 
further boost AI performance as well as new application experience, so that AI can truly create value for customers. 
Based on the Guanlan large model technology system, the Company has launched Wensou DeepinMind and 
Wensou Host - a comprehensive line of Wensou computing products spanning from the edge to the  center. The 
solution supports efficient search and real-time warning with only a sentence or a word entered. This allows users 
to search for everything, including people, cars, and incidents, with exponentially improved efficiency, a broader 
search scope, higher accuracy and more flexible application. In addition, a large model for universal detection is 
embedded into the intelligent computing products, which greatly upgrades their detection and recognition 
capabilities. Everything - whether it is moving p eople, cars, animals in videos, or static billboards, trash cans, 
flowers, plants and trees - can be identified, suggesting more comprehensive perception. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
62 
 
The Wensou computing range supports customized text-based warnings. Making use of large models' capacity 
to integrate and process multimodal information, the solution provides real-time warnings and reminders for specific 
incidents and targets based on any sentence or word entered, such as "two people riding an electric bike," "full trash 
cans," and "climbing over guardrails." By making management more timely and effective, it assists thousands of 
industries with more intelligent and efficient security management. Intelligent computing products powered by large 
models have leaped from providing specialized functions to providing open capabilities, so that they can better meet 
the diverse management needs of users. 
With the introduction of DeepinMind, which incorporates large patrol inspection models, Hikvision shows an 
in-depth application of large multimodal model technology in the fields of work safety and compliance oversight. 
Embracing open collaboration, Hikvision is growing its AI open platform's algorithm models and functionalities. 
This has led to the creation of the AI Open Platform (AIOP), which significantly increases the accuracy of 
algorithms in fragmented intelligent application scenarios. Furthermore, the Company has launched HEOP2.0, 
which has upgraded hardware open capabilities based on the Hikvision Embedded Open Platform (HEOP), offering 
customers additional options for computing power sharing and cooperation. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
63 
 
2) Smart displays and video conferencing products 
Hikvision's smart displays and video conferencing products are optimal solutions for conferencing and 
education. The Company continuously optimizes design, iterates software and hardware functions, and improves 
the application experience in accordance with scene-specific requirements, drawing on its expertise in color display, 
interactive touch, communication and connectivity, a udio and video processing, and large AI model technology. 
This facilitates the digital transformation and upgrading of scenes such as conference rooms and classrooms and 
provides customers and users with professional and intelligent solutions. 
 
Conferencing products: Hikvision's conference tablet has embraced a constantly evolving operating system, 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
64 
enhanced projection and connectivity capabilities, and a new projection group function. The seminar room solution 
supports the collaboration between a  primary display and several auxiliary displays, as well as one -click content 
sharing, making discussion and interaction more convenient. A new Type -C projector with driver -free and quick 
start features has been introduced to upgrade the projection experience. The efficiency of the entire meeting process 
is enhanced by large AI models. For example, a new AI conference assistant is now available, which is designed to 
initiate a voice call before the meeting, transcribe and translate in real time during the m eeting, and automatically 
generate minutes and to-do lists after the meeting. Additionally, efforts are made to continuously improve the quality 
of video conferences. Audio and video algorithms are trained using large models to improve voice quality and visual 
display during meetings, even when there is an unreliable connection. 
Teaching products: The Company keeps developing and upgrading its new products centered on teaching 
process, teacher growth, and education governance. The new-generation Classroom Connection solution, combined 
with lightweight large AI model capabilities, significantly improves teaching efficiency via seamless information 
collection and intelligent analysis of the teaching process. AI-enabled one-click courseware development, intelligent 
Q&A, and other features are available via the Yijiaoxue software platform, which is built on professional large 
teaching models. Combined with the Classroom Connection and supporting products, it can improve teaching 
experience as well as lesson preparation efficiency. Hikvision has continuously upgraded its overseas smart display 
and released the most recent Android version. Simpler and more intelligent education is made possible by the in -
house operating system and whiteboard software, which are link ed to general large multi -language models to 
provide rapid AI -based search, context analysis, quick Q&A, auto subtitles, minutes summary, and other AI 
applications. 
Upgraded solutions of intelligent conference rooms:  Hikvision's conference management platf orm has 
further upgraded to a full-stack digital solution. With three features: omni-network, integrated display control, and 
unified conference management, the solution is expected to contribute to the digital transformation of conference 
rooms, which are  divided into four categories - general conference rooms, video conference rooms, paperless 
conference rooms, and multi-functional halls. Unlike a conventional single-node network, an omni-network allows 
for direct network connectivity at every layer, from  the platform to the sub -device layer. Without analog lines or 
control lines, it allows for easy deployment and operation. With integrated display control, all operations of a 
multimedia conference room - instead of only equipment switches - are integrated into a tablet, simple and efficient. 
Unified conference management is made possible by a unified architecture that integrates all subsystems and 
equipment, including video conferencing, paperless conferences, recording and broadcasting, and central control. It 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
65 
guarantees both unified access and unified O&M management. 
3) Network products 
Hikvision's network product portfolio is centered on IoT scenarios, including integrated monitoring network 
solutions. The range covers a variety of products such as switches , routers, wireless bridges, WLAN products, all 
optical networks, and network management platforms. In particular, the Company's industrial switches are widely 
used in wind power generation, solar power generation, and synchronized public utility construction; and industrial 
bridges allow for wireless data transmission in both line-of-sight and non-line-of-sight environments. 
 
In 2024, the Company established the centralized and unified administration of IT+IoT devices by using its 
IoT perception capabilities at both front and back ends in combination with networks. "Video-network connectivity" 
becomes possible through the globally visible topology structure. The threshold of network O&M is lowered and 
O&M efficiency is improved in three ways: quic k start, convenient management, and efficient O&M. Moreover, 
the IoT switches represented by the light network management series are more suitable solutions for network access 
in IoT scenarios. 
Hikvision's IoT-focused network solutions, which are built on unified administration of IT + IoT networks, 
assist customers in creating networks that are secure, dependable, and intelligent. 
2.2.3 Cloud center products: establishment of an IoT -information network base, provision of abundant 
feasible solutions 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
66 
High-performance and more secure IT infrastructure becomes essential given the rapid development of 
technologies such as AI, big data, cloud computing, and cloud storage. Hikvision provides a complete range of 
cloud center solutions including servers, storage, cybersecurity, display control, network and data security, securing 
comprehensive, secure, and advanced basic IT facilities for the Internet of Things. 
1) General computing products 
Hikvision's general server series is a result of in -house research by Hikvision  based on high -performance 
processors. Continuous improvements have been made in high -speed signal design, overall performance tuning, 
energy saving and noise reduction, and BMC/BIOS's basic firmware development. Moreover, the range has been 
further expanded to include more product forms such as rack servers, edge servers, and tower servers, as a proactive 
response to market demand. 
2) Intelligent computing products 
Hikvision's intelligent server family offers a wide range of products, high GPU card scalabilit y, strong 
compatibility, and superior cost performance. The solutions allow for the real -time processing of massive video 
data and the parallel computing of various types of algorithms, coupled with improved analysis efficiency and lower 
costs. Furthermore, by supporting the collaboration between edge computing and center terminals, they reduce 
bandwidth pressure and improve support efficiency, ensuring timely data output. In addition to satisfying the general 
demands of the information industry, these solu tions provide a robust and reliable infrastructure for intelligent 
computing centers, cloud computing and big data. They deliver a high-performance, and highly reliable and secure 
infrastructure to a variety of sectors such as government, the Internet, energy, finance, operators and others. 
3) Central storage products 
Central storage products are one of Hikvision's core portfolios, as well as the cornerstone of data infrastructure. 
They are responsible for the storage, processing and distribution of massive video/image data. To make better use 
of view data and extract valuable information from massive data, Hikvision has introduced natural language and 
large multimodal video/image models into high -performance storage centers and launched the Wensou CVR  
(product name: AcuSeek CVR) storage solution. Apart from storing data, it enables the large multimodal modeling 
of massive video/image data, which helps to make the data more comprehensible. Natural language may be used to 
search for targets and incidents, greatly improving the effi ciency of locating targets in massive video recordings. 
Thanks to this new technological breakthrough in central storage devices, Hikvision now boasts a leading position 
in the industry. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
67 
 
Hikvision's central storage products were completely upgraded in 2024. A new-generation hardware platform 
with a modular architecture and comprehensively improved performance is now available. It is the first in the 
industry to support 30T hard drives. The new hardware comes with more APIs, making it more scalable and 
compatible for a greater variety of applications. It has cutting-edge designs that make installation and maintenance 
simple, such tool -free disassembly and assembly and visible operation monitoring. The solution is also energy -
saving, smart and eco -friendly thanks to intelligent sensing -based speed control fans and low -noise design. 
Advanced technologies such as system safes and trusted startup enabled by TPM (trusted platform module) are 
employed to greatly improve system security and reliability. Hikvision's central storage solutions have advanced to 
a new level of quality and competitiveness via substantial technical innovation, and they are now prepared to create 
more value for customers in a wide range of industries. 
 
Based on the Company's new-generation distributed file systems, Hikvision has introduced two new products: 
a standard cloud storage solution and a lightweight cloud storage solution. They adopt a completely symmetrical 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
68 
architecture and are integrated with new-generation hardware, which leads to less weight, better performance, more 
flexible management, and more secure data. This makes them optimal storage cloud solutions in the security 
industry. In order to meet the diverse needs of new scenarios for data storage in the age of AIoT, Hikvisi on has 
released a range of IoT converged storage products. This set of systems support the converged storage of videos, 
images, files, objects and other data. With high storage efficiency and fast and convenient data retrieval, the solution 
is expected to assist industrial enterprises with digital transformation. 
In addition, Hikvision has released a number of storage products that comply with the SM4 cryptographic 
algorithm under China 's Commercial Cryptographic Algorithm Standards. They meet the security assessment 
standards of data centers and provide holistic solutions to ensure data security and integrity for users. 
 
Hikvision's general storage products are under continuous upgrade and iteration. The product line is now 
available in centralized, distri buted, and hyper -converged architectures and supports a wide range of storage 
technologies, including SAN, NAS, and object storage. Thanks to its cutting-edge expertise in storage technology 
as well as persistent R&D, Hikvision has made significant breakth roughs in the integration of private cloud and 
public cloud solutions and developed user -specific hybrid cloud application capabilities. Powered by a hybrid 
storage solution that fuses SSD and HDD as well as innovative read and write algorithms, the range provides a 
much quicker response performance under high-density access. The solution also supports erasure coding (EC) for 
the efficient separation of hot and cold data. Furthermore, Hikvision's central storage solutions have shown to be 
highly efficient i n a number of crucial areas, including office automation (OA), database hosting, production 
management, and Internet data center (IDC) construction. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
69 
4) Large-screen display and control products 
Under the overarching strategy of "scenario -driven, digital opera tion, and integrated display and control," 
Hikvision is constantly and thoroughly upgrading its large -screen display and control products and solutions. As 
part of its ongoing efforts to develop Mini LEDs, COB LEDs and energy -saving LEDs, the Company has b uilt 
production facilities in Tonglu and Wuhan with full -chain, in-house intelligent manufacturing capabilities. This 
allows it to overcome major technological challenges in LED production, and continuously improve production 
capacity and yield. With better color consistency and higher resolution, these products are more competitive in the 
high-end commercial display market. 
In line with the strategy of integrated display and control, the Company has developed a video processing and 
LED display control system utilizing technologies for video processing, intelligent image processing, encoding and 
decoding, and intelligent interaction. Integrated with LED display features, the solution supports full -chain high-
definition audio and video technology and has the computing power to process in real time the data on videos with 
high frame rate, high bit depth, wide color gamut, and high dynamic range. This ensures lossless presentation of 
video images, and provides users with a more delicate and true-to-life display experience. 
In 2024, upgraded versions of the SmartWall Client and the ShowOS Large Screen Management Platform were 
released, marking a full revamp of intelligent display and control platforms. When paired with industry -specific 
platforms and a cloud p latform, the solution provides a rich set of functions such as content management and 
interaction management of display devices, and delivers scenario-specific management services in various display-
based settings. The product matrix, which spans more than  30 segments such as education, culture and tourism, 
industrial parks, and healthcare, offers a comprehensive suite of full-stack, in-house, multi-system integrated, omni-

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
70 
network, and scenario -based solutions. In the future, the Company will continue to fo ster the standardized and 
intelligent development of the display and control industry, accelerate the integration and innovation of "display + 
AI + computing power," and build a full-scenario intelligent display and control ecosystem. 
5) Cybersecurity and data security products 
IoT perception data has emerged as a key production driver propelling businesses intelligent upgrades in the 
midst of digital transformation. While the value of IoT data increases, the associated security challenges become 
increasingly severe. Harnessing its years of practical experience in IoT security protection as well as research and 
innovation outcomes on cryptographic technology, Hikvision has established a set of full-domain cybersecurity and 
data security systems covering "cloud-edge-end," securing reliable protection and security support for users' digital 
upgrades. 
 
Cybersecurity products: Hikvision's cybersecurity products are dedicated to AIoT security scenarios. This 
complete range of AIoT security solutions suit the needs o f multiple applications such as endogenous security, 
access security, boundary security, security audits, and analysis and early warning. 
In light of industrial features such as the vast number of IoT devices and the increasingly blurred network 
boundaries, Hikvision has built a security system that integrates dynamic defense, real -time detection, intelligent 
analysis, coordinated response and continuous monitoring. It hopes to offer users a safe and reliable intelligent 
Internet of Things by providing security capabilities such as terminals' intrinsic safety, asset mapping and security 
issue inventory, equipment access security and threat blocking, and quick risk identification and disposal. 
Data security products : Hikvision's data security produc ts are centered on cryptographic technology and 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
71 
classified into four ranges: devices that enable commercial cryptographic algorithms, cryptographic application, 
cryptographic management and cryptographic operation. It provides users with all-round, multi-level data security 
products and services throughout the entire life cycle of AIoT systems, from data collection, transmission, storage 
to application. 
 
Based on its in -house design, R&D, and production skills for cryptographic products, the Company is 
committed to technical research and innovation upon analysis of the application features and needs of cryptographic 
products in AIoT scenarios. This allows it to significantly improve the ease of use, stability, robustness and 
concurrent processing capabil ities of cryptographic products in AIoT environments. Moreover, Hikvision has 
pioneered in the intelligent application of cryptography by combining intelligent technology with cryptographic 
technology. Its related products and solutions have successfully a ddressed various security threats such as 
counterfeit attacks, data theft, and data forgery, providing all -round data protection in a wide range of industries 
such as public security, government, judiciary, education, and healthcare. 
2.3 Software Product Family: Software Platforms + Data Models + Business Services 
Hikvision's software product family is composed of software platforms, data models and business services. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
72 
 
2.3.1 Software platforms: Basic platforms + general platforms + industry-specific platforms 
Basic software platforms: Hikvision continues to improve its basic software in four categories: storage and 
computing, IoT, intelligence, and data. 
Storage and computing software includes the Cloud Computing Platform and the Cloud Storage Platform. The 
Cloud Storage Platform is a unified storage foundation built on the in -house Honghu distributed file system, and 
supports the quick development of new-generation video storage, object storage, and IoT storage products in agile 
response to the needs of tec hnology and business development. The Cloud Computing Platform continues to 
improve in basic capabilities such as high availability and multi -type storage access as well as lightweight 
architecture. While enabling enterprises' cloud operations, it also provides multi-scenario high-availability disaster 
recovery solutions to assure business continuity. 
IoT software includes the AIOT PNP , iOMS-IOT and related products, providing device access and networking 
and integrated O&M service capabilities for various IoT applications. 
AI software includes the Training Platform, the Inference Platform, the Large Model Integration Platform and 
other related products that provide capabilities of intelligent algorithm generation and application, as well as low -
code intelligent application development for a wide range of scenarios. 
Big data software includes the Bigdata Platform, the iDataFusion-Ent, BI Modeling and Application Platform, 
Data Integration Software, and Model Warehouse Software, among other relevant products, providing capabilities 
of data storage and computing, data a ggregation and governance, data openness and sharing, data modeling and 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
73 
application, and data model management for a broad range of data applications. 
General software platforms : Hikvision provides general software functionalities across a number of 
industries, including comprehensive security software, multimedia interactive software, fusion empowered software, 
and scientific instrument software. Taking comprehensive security software as an example, it includes platforms for 
comprehensive security management, canteen consumption management, smart broadcast management, smart large 
screen management and so on. Based on Hikvision's large model technology, the new software for scientific 
instruments and apparatus like chromatography, fusion spectroscopy, and microscopes, offers integrated intelligent 
applications for data collection, analysis, and reports for key businesses in a variety of industries, both offline and 
online. 
Industry-specific software platforms: Hikvision is committed to addressing users' pain points while serving 
more than 80 sub-industries. It seeks to use AIoT technology to continually broaden the digital application scenarios 
in these segments.  For example, for essential urban utilities, it has introduced specialized applications such as 
drainage and flood prevention, gas monitoring, and digital management of irrigated areas; and applications ranging 
from enterprise security, industrial park logistics, work safety to production administration have been launched to 
serve businesses. 
2.3.2 Data models: Industry data library governance models + professional business application models 
Hikvision has established enterprise data resource standards and data model description specifications and 
employed model library software for data model management, to address inconsistent standards and high execution 
and delivery expenses in data governance and application. Data models are divided into two categories by use cases: 
industry data governance models and professional business application models. 
The industry data governance models are designed to establish industry data library standards in line with 
the professional specifications of various industries, consolidate all kinds of data governance processes, and boost 
the efficiency and quality of data governance. Examples include the data governance models for the transportation 
sector, the emergency management sector, smart tourist destinations, and higher vocational colleges. 
The professional business application models are based on AIoT perception data and integrate business data 
across several domains. They support applications such as monitoring, prediction, diagnosis, and decision-making 
through statistical analysis, data visualization, and machine learning technology. For instance, primary models for 
the transportation sector include: a fusion analytics model for road traffic conditions, a visual spatiotemporal 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
74 
distribution model for OD (Origin Destination) of bus passenger flows, a real-time detection model for stop points 
of hazardous chemicals vehicles, a prediction model for road congestion spreading, a traffic prediction model for 
metro stations, a behavior warning model for unlicensed drivers, a diagnostic model for road traffic operation 
efficiency, an analysis model for spatiotemporal feature correlation of vehicles with fake license plates, a dynamic 
control strategy model for reversible lanes, a level -to-level control model for commercial vehicle risks, and an 
identification model for illegal commercial vehicles. 
2.3.3 Business services: System O&M + data engineering + AI engineering + business operations 
System O&M services:  Through its AIoT system, Hikvision provides customers with all -round support 
services for devices, systems, and businesses in the after -sales stage of its products or proje cts to ensure the 
availability, security, and reliability of system operation and secure more robust support for systems. 
Data engineering services:  Hikvision provides data engineering services such as data aggregation and 
governance and data model implementation for some industry users to tap into the value of data and support business 
applications. 
AI engineering services: Hikvision provides the customers and users of its AI Open Platform with solutions 
consultation, algorithm design, effect optimization suggestions and other services, so as to ensure that users can 
create their exclusive scenario-specific solutions on the AI Open Platform. 
Business operations services:  Hikvision offers more than ten business operation services via its Internet 
operation platform and private deployment methods. Specifically, its urban parking operation solution has now been 
applied in more than 500 cities, and it is continuously spreading to other places; the number of cities using the urban 
signal timing solution has seen a further increase; and there is a growing number of users of the Company's business 
operation platforms such as fire protection operation, smart community operation, safety risk monitoring and 
warning, and comprehensive monitoring of low-grade highways. 
3. Business Layout 
Data has emerged as a new production factor. The extensive IoT data collected by AI -powered Internet of 
Things (AIoT) products facilitates iterative advancements in existing technologies and tools; optimizes workforce 
productivity and operational efficiency; and unlocks the latent value embedded in land and capital. This drives the 
transformation and upgrading of production models, lifestyles, and governance frameworks across society. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
75 
Hikvision has been serving for various domestic and international industries for many years, providing over 
350 solutions in 66 sub-industries across 10 industries related to enterprises and institutions, and over 300 solutions 
in 37 sub-industries across 5 industries related to public services. Hikvision leverages its global marketing network 
to deliver AIoT products and solutions to clients worldwide. Through years of dedicated efforts, the Company has 
accumulated profound implementation expertise in driving socioeconomic digital transformation. 
3.1 Domest ic Enterprise & Institutional Business: Driving Digital Transformation in Production 
Management 
In recent years, digital transformation has introduced systemic changes to the manufacturing industry, driving 
comprehensive optimization and continuous innovation in quality, efficiency, safety, and sustainability. This injects 
robust momentum into the high -quality development of manufacturing. During this process, digital technologies 
and products centered on AIoT have become critical enablers for enterprises to achieve quantifiable management of 
production factors and visualized control of production processes. Through the deep integration of digital 
technologies, enterprises continue to enhance their value creation capabilities in production management. 
Building on its expertise in AIoT technologies and a comprehensive digital product portfolio, Hikvision 
addresses core production scenarios by empowering enterprises to establish holistic digital management capabilities. 
The Company drives digital transfo rmation in key areas such as human -machine collaboration, material 
management, process control, safety management, and enterprise operations. By creating end -to-end digital 
production management systems, Hikvision helps enterprises significantly improve op erational efficiency, 
achieving quality enhancement, cost reduction, and safety optimization, thereby providing robust support for high-
quality development. 
1) Helping to digitalize workforce and production tools 
The digital transformation of production management constitutes a strategic priority for industrial enterprises, 
where workforce and equipment serve as critical components of manufacturing ecosystems. Their collaborative 
efficiency directly determines production efficiency and product quality. Hikvision's AIoT-powered solutions deeply 
integrate large -model technology to enable scenario -specific digital transformation, ensuring operational 
compliance of personnel and operational stability of equipment, thereby establishing resilient, adaptable and 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
76 
sustainable production frameworks. 
As the primary productive force, workers' operational compliance fundamentally governs production quality 
and efficiency. Hikvision's production line camera series, empowered by large-model technology, implement real-
time monitoring and intelligent analysis of workforce operations. Through multi-dimensional interference filtering 
and multi-layered error-proofing mechanisms, these solutions guarantee precision-controlled production workflows. 
For example, during assembly operat ions, the system promptly identifies potential component misplacement or 
omission, while in packaging workflows, it detects misplaced or missing accessories.  These solutions have been 
implemented across diverse industries including computer/communication/consumer electronics, home appliances, 
automotive manufacturing, auto parts, equipment manufacturing, food & beverage, and pharmaceuticals, driving 
operational standardization and enhancing quality and efficiency. 
The continuous advancement of manufacturing automation has elevated production equipment to core 
components of industrial systems, where their operational status directly affects production continuity and stability. 
Leveraging its cutting -edge AIoT technol ogies, Hikvision has developed comprehensive status monitoring and 
intelligent analytics solutions through multi -modal large model algorithms. These solutions serve rotating 
equipment, static installations, electrical systems, and instrumentation devices. V alidated across pharmaceutical, 
logistics, machining, auto parts, electronics, iron & steel metallurgy, and petrochemical sectors, the system enhances 
equipment health management while optimizing maintenance efficiency. 
In equipment monitoring, Hikvision's sound-vibration-temperature series monitor temperature, vibration, and 
sound data of critical components (e.g., motors, bearings) in real time and provide anomaly alerts, significantly 
improving maintenance efficiency. The integration of fiber-optic monitoring solutions with large-model technology 
effectively warns against operational risks in long -distance conveyor belt rollers to ensure equipment stability. 
Additionally, the large model -powered meter recognition series automates data collection and repo rting from 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
77 
production equipment gauges. 
     In human -machine collaboration applications, Hikvision utilizes multi -dimensional IoT perception 
technologies to establish secure and reliable remote auxiliary control systems, enhancing operational safety and 
efficiency. In industries such as steel metallurgy, machinery, manufacturing, and logistics terminals, cranes —as 
critical production equipment—frequently encounter challenging operational environments characterized by dust, 
smoke, and vibrations. These conditions often result in operational constraints, reduced productivity, and elevated 
safety risks. Hikvision 's anti -vibration camera series, featuring patented structural designs, effectively mitigate 
image distortion caused by mechanical vibrations, providing crane operators with stable and clear visual feedback. 
Furthermore, the implementation of large -model technology enables strict adherence to the "man-free safety 
protocols" for crane operations. The system provides intelligent detection and real -time alerts for unauthorized 
personnel intrusions within operational zones. Integrated with advanced intelligent hook -tracking algorithms, it 
dynamically monitors hook positions, offering operators intuitive and precise visual guidance to ensure safe and 
efficient crane operations. 
 
2) Helping to digitalize material flow and inventory management 
Material flow constitutes a mission-critical process throughout production cycles, where data accuracy ensures 
component completeness and circulation efficiency. Hikvision's  deep learning -based barcode/OCR technology 
powers its comprehensive PDA portfolio – including full-touch, button-operated, DPM-specific, and cold -chain 
optimized models – enabling precise identification of 1D/2D codes and alphanumeric data across diverse material 
surfaces. These devices enhance accuracy and efficiency in loading/unloading and material transfer operations, 
effectively reducing production anomalies caused by material mismatches.  Furthermore, by integrating video 
capabilities, Hikvision delivers end-to-end visibility and traceability of material flow data, empowering enterprises 
to achieve closed-loop digital logistics management. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
78 
 
As vital corporate assets, the precise management of materials directly impacts production efficiency and order 
fulfillment. Accurate inventory control is pivotal for production management, requiring comprehensive asset 
auditing systems for everything from miniature electronic components to bulk commodities like coal and cement. 
This helps ensure systematic production continuity. 
In electronics manufacturing, Hikvision's X-ray intelligent component counter streamlines electronic remnant 
inventory. Using X-ray penetration technology, it achieves 99.99% accuracy in identifying quantities of components 
in trays. Meanwhile, the PDA series enables smart audits of electronic material storage, operating 7-8 times faster 
than manual methods.  Widely adopted in SMT, LED, lithium battery, automotive electronics, and consumer 
electronics sectors, the X-ray counter ensures efficient management of electronic materials. 
In cement, steel, coal mining, chemical, and power generation industries, traditional manual inventory methods 
struggle with complex material varieties, irregular stacking patterns, inefficiency, high costs, an d measurement 
inaccuracies - particularly for bulk materials like aggregates and ores. Hikvision's radar-based volume measurement 
solutions overcome these challenges. Designed for high-temperature, high-dust environments including aggregate 
yards and clink er silos, the technology delivers precise volumetric measurements of irregular stockpiles. This 
enables scientific inventory management and supports data-driven production planning. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
79 
3) Helping to digitalize process execution and quality control 
Comprehensive production monitoring enables real-time operational visibility, anomaly detection, and process 
optimization. Hikvision helps enterprises establish visible, quantifiable, and traceable monitoring systems, shifting 
management from experience -driven to data -driven approaches. This transformation enhances quality control, 
operational efficiency, and cost-effectiveness across manufacturing execution. 
Visualization proves fundamental for production oversight. Traditional manual inspections face time 
constraints and limited coverage. Hikvision's AR/VR-enabled workshop solutions integrate multi-dimensional data 
visualization, creating intuitive, accurate, and real-time monitoring dashboards. The system improves detection of 
production risks such as workflow deviati ons or non -compliant operations, accelerates anomaly resolution, and 
provides comprehensive data traceability for root-cause analysis. 
To meet scenario-specific and personalized market demands, frequent production line adjustments are often 
necessary. However, this introduces challenges like rapid capacity ramp -up, equipment anomaly troubleshooting, 
remote maintenance, and inflexible paper-based work instructions. Hikvision's compact, industrial-grade production 
line cameras support installation in confined spaces. High -definition, high-frame-rate video enables engineers to 
swiftly pinpoint equipment issues, optimize parameters, and enhance efficiency in capacity scaling, ano maly 
analysis, and remote maintenance. Integrated with barcode scanning systems, these cameras link video data with 
product information for full -process quality traceability. Additionally, the ESOP (Electronic Standard Operating 
Procedure) terminal consoli dates process visualization, retrieval, and task distribution, dynamically updating 
instructions based on production orders. This delivers precise guidance and real -time reporting, elevating both 
efficiency and output quality. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
80 
 
 
In manufacturing, product  quality is a cornerstone of competitiveness . Hikvision's robust IoT perception 
capabilities and innovative large -model algorithms empower enterprises to establish end -to-end quality control 
systems from raw materials to finished goods, thereby enhancing p roduct competitiveness. For product assembly, 
vision-based large-model algorithms detect misassembled or missing components in real time, triggering immediate 
alerts for packaging errors. For internal defects, Hikvision integrates X-ray industrial inspection systems with large-
model technology to identify soldering voids and short circuits in circuit boards. This solution also excels in foreign 
object detection for food and pharmaceuticals , ensuring superior product quality.  In compositional analysis, 
Hikvision employs chromatography for precise substance profiling in food, environmental, pharmaceutical, and 
chemical sectors.  Combined with spectral technology, the systems accurately measur e coal's calorific value, ash 
content, sulfur levels, and moisture, with large-scale deployments in coal plants, power stations, coal -chemical 
facilities, cement plants, and metallurgical operations. 
4) Helping to digitalize production safety management and emergency command 
Safety production is the cornerstone of enterprise survival and development. Hikvision focuses on risks across 
personnel, materials, equipment, and environmental factors, enabling real -time monitoring of hazards throughout 
production processes. This empowers enterprises to enhance risk identification capabilities, proactively detect safety 
threats, and effectively reduce the likelihood of accidents. 
Robotic arms, as critical automation tools in material handling, maintenance, and servicing,  pose inherent 
safety risks to nearby workers. Hikvision integrates deep learning AI algorithms with triple -lens cameras to 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
81 
accurately detect personnel intrusions  and trigger real -time alerts.  The system interfaces with robotic control 
systems to enforce intelligent safety protocols, such as disabling robotic arm activation when personnel are present, 
ensuring safe human-machine collaboration. 
In industries such as oil, chemicals, and natural gas,  gas leaks may cause material losses or catastrophic 
incidents involving flammable, explosive, or toxic substances . Hikvision deploys fixed gas detectors at critical 
points such as valves, pipelines, and storage tanks for real -time monitoring of combustible and hazardous gases. 
Portable gas monitors worn by workers  detect oxygen, methane, carbon monoxide, hydrogen sulfide, and other 
hazardous gases, enabling on-site risk awareness. Hyperspectral Fourier gas remote sensors, installed at elevated 
vantage points, remotely detect and map gas plumes from leaks, identifyi ng over 490 hazardous substances like 
methane and ethylene and visualizing gas dispersion patterns to guide rapid repair efforts. 
Emergency command, as the final safeguard in safety management, forms a closed-loop system encompassing 
prevention, incident r esponse, real -time mitigation, and post -event analysis.  Hikvision unifies existing 
communication devices—audio, video, and conferencing systems —into an integrated platform for seamless and 
centralized emergency command access and dispatch. Aligned with ent erprise emergency protocols, the system 
integrates structured contingency plans, resource centralization, scenario -specific analysis, real -time "command 
dashboard" visualization, and post -incident evaluations. Combined with dual -prevention mechanisms, it e nsures 
both routine safety governance and agile crisis response across entire operations. 
5) Helping to digitalize group-wide management and supply chain collaboration 
Industrial parks, as core hubs for industrial growth, require digital upgrades to optimize enterprise-wide 
operational efficiency. As businesses expand, managing multiple factories and parks poses significant challenges.  
Hikvision's group -wide chain solution establishes standardized, shared, and aligned management systems and 
frameworks, transitioning from "single -park management" to "integrated group operations." This breaks silos, 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
82 
enables cross-domain coordination, and creates unified governance models. 
For personnel management, the system supports seamless access, precise attendance tracking,  self-service 
cafeteria payments, and streamlined dormitory check -ins across campuses. For vehicle management, it facilitates 
cross-campus entry/exit and parking for employee vehicles, coordinates cross-campus transportation scheduling and 
operations for logistics fleets, and enables remote monitoring of weighbridge operations. In safety management, the 
platform ensures unified security control across multiple campuses, implements tiered incident classification and 
reporting protocols, and activates group-wide emergency command during major incidents to safeguard operations. 
For inspections, the group replaces manual audits with AR/VR-enabled digital inspections for real-time visibility, 
data-driven control, and operational transparency. 
Supply chain management directly impacts operational efficiency, market competitiveness, and sustainability. 
Hikvision's Hik-Cloud Enterprise solutions enable digital supplier management, fostering collaborative models for 
production management, quality control, and channel alignment to strengthen supply chain ecosystems. 
In terms of production collaboration, multi -level remote visualization tools enable end -to-end transparency 
from factories to production lines and equipment.  The Hik -Cloud Enterprise SaaS platform provides r eal-time 
monitoring of production statuses and process SOP compliance at critical control points, triggering instant anomaly 
to ensure process adherence. For quality collaboration, Hikvision replaces costly on-site supplier audits with remote 
quality inspections via the platform,  ensuring precise control over raw material quality and end -to-end product 
integrity. Regarding channel collaboration, Hikvision enables remote oversight of regional warehouse inventories, 
channel display standards, and service compliance, optimizing supply chain agility and accountability. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
83 
3.2 Domestic Enterprise & Institutional Business: Enabling Digital Transformation in Lifestyle 
In recent years, digital technologies have found applications in various aspects of social life, enhancing people's 
experiences in daily necessities, housing, and transportation, and strengthening their sense of fulfillment and 
happiness. Hikvision relentlessly explores new business opportunities for lifestyle improvement and upgrading, and 
continues to develop innovative digital life service applications to accelerate the digital transformation of lifestyle. 
1) Education: Building intelligent, safe, and healthy learning environments 
As the digital transformation of education advances, Hikvision leverages AIoT technologies and collaborates 
with academic institutions to deliver premium digital services for teachers and students across all educational stages, 
aligning with the demand for high-quality educational development. 
In higher education, Hikvision's "2+2+1" smart classroom solution features two intelligent control engines to 
enable holistic smart management and automated operation across diverse teaching spaces. Two non-intrusive audio 
amplification systems create immersive audiovisual environments, while an AI-powered recording and broadcasting 
system, integrated with large-model algorithms, supports innovative applications like classroom behavior analytics. 
The solution's fully networked, simplified architecture supports hybrid online-offline teaching models while driving 
pedagogical innovation and teaching quality improvement. 
In primary and secondary school campuses, video surveillance systems covering key areas are deployed 
alongside perimeter protection and climbing detection AI algorithms to ana lyze risky behaviors. Large vision 
models improve detection accuracy and reduces false alarms, significantly lowering safety management costs. 
In sports facilities like playgrounds and gyms, smart sports terminals record exercise routines, provide 
movement analysis for skill improvement, support teaching and fitness assessments, and engage students through 
interactive challenges and performance rankings, boosting physical fitness and participation. 
Hikvision's smart products and solutions have been adopted by leading institutions such as Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University and Wuhan University, as well as numerous K-12 schools nationwide, creating intelligent, secure, and 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
84 
health-focused educational environments. 
2) Smart healthcare: Elevating service quality and efficiency 
In healthcare, where service quality critically impacts public health and well-being, Hikvision integrates IoT, 
AI analytics and cross-system data processing to develop closed-loop, full-process diagnostic and treatment models. 
Hikvision's smart war d solutions address the needs of medical staff, caregivers, and patients. Features like 
Caregiver positioning, call transfer, and automated rounds check -ins streamline workflows and improve patient 
experiences. For bedridden patients, 5G -enabled medical PD As measure pressure ulcer areas and automatically 
document results. Millimeter-wave perception radar products detect falls in real time while continuously monitoring 
patients' breathing, heart rate, and movements for 24/7 patient safety. AI-powered infusion monitoring systems track 
fluid levels and alert staff for timely interventions. To facilitate smart outpatient service, multi -format guidance 
terminals and intelligent algorithms optimize the entire patient journey, automating triage and resource allocat ion 
to enhance clinic efficiency and orderliness. In digital operating rooms, video communication terminals integrate 
medical data to provide surgical references, improving team coordination. Intelligent telemedicine terminals enable 
coordinated treatment between pre-hospital and in-hospital teams through video and audio interactions and multi-
modal data transmission for pre -hospital emergency care, remote consultations, and cross -facility collaborations, 
effectively enhancing elevating treatment capabilities. 
  
Hikvision remains committed to advancing healthcare through digital transformation and intelligent innovation, 
continuously enhancing service quality and operational efficiency. Its medical solutions empower healthcare 
institutions to deliver patient -centric care, with proven deployments at China's leading medical institutions, 
including Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, the First Affiliated Hospital of Ningbo University, West China 
Hospital of Sichuan University, and the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University. 
3) Trade and commerce: Enabling end-to-end digital transformation from warehouses to stores 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
85 
Hikvision leverages its Hik-Cloud Chain platform and Guanlan Large Model to provide products and solutions 
for trade and commercial enterprises across chain stores, warehousing logistics, and production campuses. Through 
AI-powered store inspections, customer flow statistics, information broadcasting, visualized traceability, warehouse 
management, and vehicle yard management, the solutions enhance st ore operations and upstream production -
distribution efficiency. 
Hikvision's Hik-Cloud platform enables remote visual management of all stores through networked video 
solutions. Trade and commerce-specific large models analyze employee uniform, operational procedures, sanitation 
standards, and food safety protocols to ensure compliance and streamline inspections. Centralized digital signage 
and audio systems synchronize marketing campaigns and announcements across locations. Customer flow cameras 
support multi-dimensional data analysis for footfall assessments and marketing optimization. Visual traceability 
platforms links personnel, materials, and orders to resolve disputes and quality issues with credible evidence. PDA 
devices accelerate inventory managemen t, while digital dock and yard management systems (YMS) increase 
logistics efficiency with higher utilization rates. 
 
Hikvision's comprehensive AIoT portfolio drives digital transformation for trade and commercial enterprises. 
As of the end of 2024, Hik-Cloud Chain serves approximately 700,000 chain stores with over 6 million connected 
devices, maintaining rapid growth in both user adoption and ecosystem scale. 
4) Real estate and property management: Advancing digitalization of property services through technology 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
86 
and enhancing residential quality 
Hikvision leverages technology to serve communities, offering integrated solutions spanning marketing, 
facility support, and smart home services across the entire property lifecycle. These solutions support the 
development of high-quality residential projects by aligning with the full lifecycle of housing construction. 
During construction, AI -powered cameras deployed on -site document construction progress and assist 
managers in monitoring timelines. Crane monitor ing sensors prevent overload risks during hoisting operations. 
Commercial displays and irregular-shaped screens in sales centers showcase location advantages, floor plans, and 
smart community features, driving digital customer engagement. Integrated smart public area and home solutions 
cover multiple living spaces, featuring smart access control, AI-enhanced security applications, and nine-category 
smart home services. Interactive tech experiences highlight project premiumness, boosting technological branding 
and market value. Smart home demo rooms provide immersive tech interactions, enhancing purchase experiences 
and decision-making efficiency. AI-powered inspection platforms standardize property services while reducing on-
site workloads, achieving quality and efficiency improvements. 
 
Hikvision has deepened its expertise in real estate through strategic collaborations with Binjiang Real Estate 
Group, Shanghai Poly Property Services, and Yongsheng Property Management, fostering mutually beneficial 
partnerships and innovation. 
5) Cultural and museum venues: Preserving cultural heritage through digital-intelligence integration 
China's five-thousand-year cultural treasures demand not only preservation of heritage but also technological 
safeguarding. Hikvision focuses on the preservation of cultural relics while enabling public access to the splendor 
of traditional culture through innovative digital solutions. 
Archaeologists utilize 3D super -depth microscopes to magnify surface structures of ceramics, bronzes, and 
textiles, analyzing craftsmanship and degradation patterns to guide restoration plans. Multispectral fire detectors 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
87 
protect ancient architecture by identifying fire risks at ultra-early stages, pinpointing ignition sources, and triggering 
instant responses. In humid or rainy regions, portable thermal imagers detect water seepage and hollowing in ancient 
walls, uncovering hidden structural risks. Intelligent security gates at museum entrances identify prohibited metal 
items (e.g., restricted knives) and aler t staff for manual checks, ensuring visitor safety and order. An AIoT hub 
integrates museum security systems, creating a digital twin through data interoperability. This 3D visualized security 
monitoring system consolidates all safety parameters onto a single interface, enabling holistic oversight. 
 
Hikvision remains dedicated to preserving cultural heritage through digital-intelligence integration. Its solutions 
have been deployed at the Palace Museum, Henan Museum, and other partner institutions, advancing the 
preservation and inheritance of cultural legacy. 
6) Tourism attractions: Crafting comfortable travel experiences through multi-dimensional enhancements 
The integration of culture and tourism serves as a vital pathway to fulfill people's aspirations for quality living 
in the modern era, with digital technologies driving high-quality development in cultural tourism as a new quality 
productive force. Hikvision develops integrated intelligent solutions spanning service, experience, safety, and 
management domains for tourist attraction scenarios. 
At visitor service centers, interconnected ticketing systems and validation devices streamline entry processes—
from reservation and online purchase to on -site pickup and multi -mode verification—reducing wait t imes. To 
safeguard natural resources in scenic areas, AIoT solutions enable geological displacement monitoring, thermal 
imaging, and water quality analysis to identify risks including geologic hazards, forest fires, floods/droughts, and 
hydrological anomalies. This technological integration elevates operational efficiency in environmental monitoring 
and hazard mitigation. Sound-vibration-temperature monitoring products monitor cableway motor health and detect 
anomalies in cableway facility operations. Smart  meters automate equipment status checks during routine 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
88 
inspections. Environmental/meteorological and tilt sensors track weather impacts on outdoor cableway operations. 
At operational command centers, Hikvision's solution aggregates multi -dimensional perception data (visitor flow, 
vehicle tracking, perimeter security, fire control) to establish a 3D digital twin -powered command platform. This 
system enables real-time precision monitoring, equipment control, data analytics, emergency response coordination, 
and operational task management via an intuitive interface. 
Hikvision's smart tourism solutions optimize destination management and services through scenario -based 
digital applications, elevating travel experiences. In collaboration with partners including  Mount Tai in Shandong 
and the Sand Lake in Ningxia, the Company empowers intelligent, sustainable growth in the cultural tourism sector. 
7) Financial services: Focusing on the "Five Key Financial Initiatives" to enable new service models 
The "Five Key Financial Initiatives" — Technology Finance, Green Finance, Inclusive Finance, Elderly Care 
Finance, and Digital Finance — serve as critical pillars for financial institutions to support high-quality economic 
growth. Leveraging its technological strengths, Hikvision empowers financial institutions to enhance internal -
external scenario management and drive business innovation. 
Hikvision integrates LCD video walls, LED displays, and multi-format smart screens with theme-based designs 
such as dual -carbon energy efficiency, senior-adaptive interfaces, rural revitalization, and wealth management. 
These solutions enable banks to establish specialized branches —green branches, elderly care branches, inclusive 
finance outlets, and wealth centers —facilitating channel t ransformation and delivering specialized and tailored 
financial services. 
Hikvision's financial smart inspection system deploys edge computing devices such as compliance risk-control 
terminals powered by large vision models, covering dozens of security and  operational scenarios across financial 
institutions and office facilities. This system replaces traditional manual inspection methods with digital solutions, 
achieving significant cost reduction and efficiency gains. 
Amid China's deepening aging population trends, Hikvision collaborates with banks and insurers to enhance 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
89 
elderly financial services. Through devices such as life health radars, fall detection sensors, smart care terminals, 
and homecare wristbands, the Company supports insurers in digitizing community-based and in-home elderly care 
models under the "Insurance + Wellness" framework, elevating customer experiences. 
 
These solutions have been deployed by institutions including Agricultural Bank of China, Industrial and 
Commercial Bank of China, China Postal Savings Bank, China Merchants Bank, Pacific Insurance, and Taikang 
Insurance, accelerating the implementation of the "Five Key Financial Initiatives". 
3.3 Domestic Public Service Business: Facilitating Digital Transformation in Governance Methods 
The digital transformation of governance has become an irreversible trend in the digital age, with e-government 
initiatives entering an accelerated development phase globally. Advancements in IoT perception, large models, big 
data, and cloud computing are driving intelligent digital governance, now recognized as a critical enabler for societal 
digitalization and national governance modernization. Hikvision, grounded in its AIoT technological framework, 
continuously strengthens four foundational platforms - Perception Base, Intelligence Base, Data Base, and 
Fusion Empowerment capabilities , and expands its five core industry verticals: security, mob ility, ecology, 
governance, and service , striving to realize six strategic objectives: smarter cities, safer communities, more 
efficient mobility, precision governance, targeted service delivery, and livable ecological environments. 
Hikvision deepens and enhances its foundational platform capabilities. In developing its perception base, 
Hikvision continuously advances full -spectrum and multi -dimensional perception technologies, expanding its 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
90 
product portfolio. Guided by scientific deployment principles, it enhances scenario-specific perception terminals to 
address operational challenges, building intelligent, multi-layered urban IoT perception systems. To strengthen its 
intelligence base, Hikvision integrates domain knowledge to develop industry-specific large models based on large 
IoT perception models, large language models, and multi-modal large models. Its centralized AI model hub powers 
the scenario -optimized Wensou series, improving detection accuracy for urban safety incidents, anomalous 
behaviors, and smart scenarios, while enhancing interactive experiences. The platform supports GPU compatibility, 
unified model management, and autonomous algorithm training for new scenarios. In terms of its data base , 
Hikvision focuses on deep integration of visual an d operational data. It enhances data governance efficiency and 
quality through automated tools, deeply mines data value via analytical automation, and builds a graph -data 
convergence system encompassing data aggregation, processing, governance, mining, and  service delivery. To 
enhance its fusion empowerment capability, Hikvision, entered on collaborative development, resource sharing, 
and cross-domain integration, integrates multi-source perception, AI, and data resources across industries and urban 
systems. This enables cross -sector, cross-department, and cross -level coordination in infrastructure deployment, 
video sharing, algorithm co-management, capacity sharing, computing power integration, and event co-governance, 
driving rapid smart scenario implementation in diverse industries. 
Leveraging deep industry insights and practical expertise, Hikvision strengthens its professional service 
capabilities in AI engineering, data management, system operations, and solution maintenance. Through nationwide 
service support teams, it enhances customer engagement across vertical markets. Hikvision continuously enhances 
its PIDAM (Perception -Intelligence-Data-Application-Maintenance) framework capabilities, covering systems 
design, development, integration, and project management. Through strategic collaboration with system integrator 
partners, it delivers full-cycle project assurance for end users across industries. 
Hikvision broadens and deepens its industry applications.  Hikvision continues to expand and solidify its 
presence in security, mobility, ecology, governance, and service sectors. Leveraging industry -specific business 
scenarios as implementation frameworks and building upon its AIoT capabilities, the Company delivers end-to-end 
solutions through continuous advancements in its Guanlan Large Model and image -data integration technologies, 
enabling cross-industry intelligent innovation and operational efficiency enhancement. To date, the Company has 
deployed more than 2,000 business scenarios, over 100 large model algorithms, more than 150 business models, 
over 500 intelligent industry applications, and more than 300 industry solutions. These achievements span smart 
cities, public safety, emergency management, traffic control, social governance, smart parking, and s mart water 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
91 
conservancy, offering robust technological support for modernized urban governance. 
1) Smarter cities 
In the smart city sector, Hikvision integrates IoT and AI technologies to build an end -to-end intelligent 
governance system encompassing "perception-analysis-decision-execution". This system precisely monitors urban 
operational details, provides scientific decision-making support for city administrators, drives the transformation of 
urban governance into data-driven models, and advances the development of smarter cities.  
Leveraging multi-modal foundation models, the Company enhances its fusion empowerment product suite to 
build secure, reliable, and interoperable city -level intelligent hubs. These systems enable dynamic catalog 
management and cross-domain resource orchestration for million-scale IoT devices. Through advanced perception 
data cognition capabilities, they improve accuracy in detecting regulatory violations and safety risks, while 
establishing intelligent incident dispatch mech anisms to meet multi -industry operational demands and empower 
scenario-based smart applications. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
92 
Furthermore, Hikvision provides comprehensive and diverse solutions for grassroots urban administrators at 
village, neighborhood, and community levels. 
In the digital village sector, Hikvision advances its Five-Pillar Revitalization framework: industrial growth, 
ecological sustainability, governance modernization, service enhancement, cultural preservation. Focusing on rural 
industries, the Company delivers sce nario-specific applications including crop growth monitoring systems and 
smart tourism platforms, driving quality development in rural agriculture and tourism. Regarding rural ecology, 
Hikvision deploys intelligent monitoring systems for water quality mana gement and automated village landscape 
inspections, enhancing ecological protection and residential environment enhancement. In rural governance, the 
Company implements intelligent systems for drowning prevention monitoring and community behavior scoring, 
optimizing rural governance operations. For rural services, Hikvision deploys smart elderly care systems and e-bike 
charging infrastructure, expanding service accessibility across daily life, education, healthcare, and elderly care, 
thereby elevating rural living standards. To promote rural culture, Hikvision provides solutions for cultural resource 
management and agricultural skill training, supporting the sustainable inheritance of rural cultural heritage. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
93 
In the smart township sector , Hikvision continues to optimize its solutions with road condition monitoring 
systems and scene analysis tools, effectively improving municipal management efficiency.  Focusing on public 
safety initiatives, the Company provides fire safety supervision and dispute mediation ap plications to enhance 
security management. For public services, smart publicity systems and intelligent broadcasting solutions strengthen 
community service capabilities. In ecological protection, flood prevention monitoring and forest fire surveillance 
systems improve environmental conservation. Through law enforcement team management and evidence tracking 
tools, the Company supports the modernization of integrated grassroots law enforcement operations. 
In the smart community sector, Hikvision continues to advance its integrated management system solutions. 
In community governance, the Company provides scenario -based applications including non -motorized vehicle 
management and high-rise littering management, promoting more precise, intelligent, and efficient governance. For 
community safety, intelligent access control systems and critical facility protection solutions help establish 
comprehensive safety-fire prevention supervision systems, enhancing residents' security. Regarding community 
services, elderly care support and digital service guidance applications improve residents' well -being and service 
accessibility. In integrated community management, centralized management dashboards and work order systems 
strengthen operational efficiency and service capabilities. 
2) Safer communities 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
94 
In the public safety domain, by following the core development path of "perception + intelligence", Hikvision 
is committed to providing comprehensive "video-image intelligence-based" solutions and products. Empowered by 
the Guanlan  Large Model, Hikvision expands industry application scenarios and actively integrates video 
surveillance with radar, infrared, vibration, and audio sensors to enhance environmental perception and early 
warning capabilities in complex scenarios, driving in telligent public safety upgrades and safeguarding the Safe 
China initiative.  
In the road traffic safety sector, Hikvision deeply integrates IoT perception technology and big data analytics 
with industry scenarios, delivering comprehensive safety solutions for expressways, national/provincial highways, 
and urban/rural roads. By analyzing traffic safety conditions and identifying risk factors, the Company implements 
refined governance for hazard scenarios and targeted control of key vehicles (e.g., heavy tr ucks, non-motorized 
vehicles), supporting authorities in enhancing safety management. Additionally, Hikvision provides multi -
dimensional capabilities including refined perception, data management, and analytical tools to regulate travel 
behaviors and ensure operational safety, offering robust support for efficient and secure road traffic systems. 
Taking road hazard management as an example: For highway traffic police stations, key vehicle alerts assist 
officers in identifying expired inspections and cloned vehicles. On highway sections, the system detects speeding, 
low-speed driving, illegal parking, emergency lane violations, reversing, wrong -way driving, and illegal lane 
changes in tunnels. In adverse weather zones, weather monitoring, road condition warnings, dynamic speed limits, 
tailgating detection, and merging alerts enhance safety. At uncontrolled intersections, village -crossing sections, 
sharp curves, and cliffside roads, oncoming vehicle alerts, speed warnings, and pedestrian crossing notifications 
mitigate risks. These integrated capabilities establish comprehensive hazard management, improving traffic 
governance and road safety. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
95 
Furthermore, for regulating vehicle driving behaviors , Hikvision's traffic violation detection system  
integrates violation identification, data transmission, visual alerts, and application processing. At urban intersections, 
it detects red-light running, lane crossing, wrong-way driving, improper lane usage, and traffic restriction violations. 
On road segments, it monitors speeding, illegal parking, failure to yield to pedestrians, and phone use while driving. 
The system additionally identifies truck overloading, overcrowded vans, illegal honking, and license violations, 
providing real-time evidence for on-site safety education to standardize driving behaviors and ensure road safety 
and efficiency. 
In emergency management , Hikvision provides IoT connectivity, risk monitoring, and intelligent early 
warning applications for hazardous chemicals, fireworks and firecrackers, non-coal mines, and industry and trade 
enterprises, alongside specialized operation management tools for high -risk scenarios like hot work and confined 
spaces to enhance safety oversight.  For natural disasters such as forest/grassland fires, typhoons, floo ds, and 
geological hazards, the system offers disaster risk monitoring, comprehensive assessment, early warning, and 
situational analysis to strengthen disaster prediction capabilities. For risk-prone locations such as construction sites, 
small-scale commercial premises, dilapidated houses, and gas stations, multi-domain risk monitoring, assessment, 
and closed-loop control applications enable remote dynamic supervision, mitigating risks and supporting resilient 
urban safety. For sudden incidents, end-to-end emergency command capabilities including comprehensive analysis, 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
96 
dispatch coordination, and post -event evaluation are deployed. Scenario -specific analysis tools further improve 
emergency response for hazardous chemical accidents, forest fires, urban waterlogging, and other critical disasters. 
3) More efficient mobility 
Hikvision integrates IoT perception technology with transportation scenarios including infrastructure 
digitalization, operational reliability, traffic management, hub logistics, and mobility se rvices. The Company 
provides refined perception capabilities and data-driven decision-making mechanisms to ensure secure and efficient 
transportation systems. 
For congestion diagnosis and management, Hikvision deploys a variety of perception devices, control systems, 
and computing platforms to collect multi-dimensional intersection data, forming a digital perception base through 
multi-source fusion. Leveraging its traffic cognition engine, the Company provides control strategies, decision -
making models, per formance evaluation, and simulation tools. Traffic pattern analysis identifies recurrent 
congestion points, while operational diagnostics analyze intersection inefficiencies to generate signal timing 
adjustments and lane configuration recommendations. Integrated intelligent systems including traffic signal control, 
traffic flow optimization, and dynamic route guidance regulate traffic demand through travel time allocation, lane 
utilization, and route planning. Signal timing optimization services with standa rdized workflows enhance urban 
traffic management precision through system-service integration, achieving congestion mitigation goals. 
Hikvision's smart traffic signal control platform delivers targeted capabilities across scenarios: For isolated 
intersections, actuated control and adaptive algorithms resolve improper signal timing. For urban arterials, 
dynamic/fixed green wave coordination and short -zone coordination improve overall traffic flow efficiency. For 
regional multi-intersection coordination, dynamic optimization achieves network-wide traffic flow maximization. 
For queue spillover risks, overflow prevention protocols maintain intersection functionality. For uneven turning 
flows, dynamic lane allocation balances lane utilization to reduce congestion. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
97 
 
Additionally, Hikvision provides comprehensive solutions for traffic management operations across diverse 
sectors to ensure safe and efficient transportation systems. 
In highway transportation , Hikvision integrates multi -dimensional perception, AI, an d large model 
technologies to advance intelligent applications across construction, management, maintenance, and service 
operations. The Guanlan Large Model enhances AI-driven precision monitoring for bridges, slopes, tunnels, service 
areas, construction s ites, toll stations, mountain roads, and low -visibility zones. Project management tools 
streamline workflows, while AI -powered road inspection devices and maintenance decision systems optimize 
infrastructure upkeep. Multi-channel traveler information services improve journey safety and comfort, supporting 
efficient transportation networks. 
 
For integrated transportation hubs,  Hikvision addresses stakeholders' management and service needs by 
delivering full-scenario monitoring and control capabilities for key areas including drop-off zones, ride-hailing/taxi 
lots, public parking, and transfer concourses. Tailored to passenger a rrival/departure flows, the system provides 
ride-hailing dispatch alerts, taxi queue predictions, parking availability updates, and emergency assistance. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
98 
Scenario-specific IoT perception technologies empower hubs to function as critical urban mobility anchors. 
 
In port management , Hikvision focuses on safety management, intelligent operations, equipment 
maintenance, and terminal zone governance. By integrating video, audio, radar, thermal imaging, and other multi-
dimensional perception technologies with AI capabilities, it delivers comprehensive monitoring for hazard detection, 
conveyor belt inspections, crane CCTV/remote control, and gate management. These solutions accelerate digital 
transformation, ensure operational safety, optimize cargo handling efficiency, and advance the development of next-
generation secure, smart, and sustainable ports. 
 
In rail transit , Hikvision leverages multi -dimensional and AI technologies to address operational needs 
including station passenger flow management, facility maintenance, rail corridor patrols, and control center 
coordination. The solutions feature abnormal behavior detection, crowd control, smart security screening, work 
safety monitoring, automated corridor inspections, and operation status oversight. These c apabilities support safe 
and efficient urban rail operations while enhancing passenger safety and comfort. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
99 
 
4) Precision governance 
For critical urban infrastructure including gas pipelines, drainage systems, bridges, water supply networks, 
heating systems, and utility tunnels, Hikvision integrates IoT perception, risk assessment, decision support, digital 
twins, and scenario-specific applications. Through pipeline network modeling and multi -modal large models, the 
Company develops digital monitoring platforms to enable precision management of underground utility networks. 
 
Hikvision delivers a comprehensive risk assessment system for urban lifelines, enabling risk in dicator 
management through intelligent warnings and risk inventory control. Its digital twin applications support 3D 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
100 
pipeline modeling, real -time data visualization, and predictive analysis via simulation engines. The decision 
command system integrates pip eline data mapping, risk data overlay, and statistical analysis for real -time risk 
detection, supported by a unified operational dashboard and emergency dispatch for visual and efficient incident 
management in underground utility networks. In drainage mana gement, Hikvision deploys subsurface level and 
flow sensors to monitor drainage network operations in real time, providing urban waterlogging information 
management applications to support flood monitoring, early warnings, and situation analysis. For gas safety, fixed 
laser methane detectors enable real-time gas concentration monitoring, with pipeline operation management tools 
to facilitate risk identification. For bridge management, visual deformation sensors and traffic checkpoints correlate 
structural data with vehicle traffic information, offering structural anomaly detection capabilities to enhance bridge 
safety. For water supply, heating systems, and underground utility tunnels, leakage, pressure, flow, and water quality 
monitoring devices provide com prehensive operational monitoring and risk early warnings across critical 
infrastructure. 
Additionally, Hikvision offers comprehensive solutions for diverse urban governance needs.  In urban 
operations management, its smart city management platform integrates urban management dome cameras, urban 
management panoramic PTZ cameras, AI analytics servers, and other devices to enable intelligent inspections of 
urban appearance, urban waterlogging monitoring, illegal construction detection, construction waste trans port 
tracking, centralized operations monitoring, and other applications. The platform provides warning and algorithmic 
scheduling capabilities for nearly 70 types of regulatory violations ranging from fixed-point monitoring to mobile 
patrols, and from sin gle-scenario to complex -area coverage, helping to create a clean, tidy and orderly urban 
environment. In terms of environmental sanitation supervision, Hikvision provides a smart environmental sanitation 
platform with a focus on scenarios such as sanitatio n worker and vehicle operation, garbage collection and 
transportation, station management, and garbage classification.The platform allows worker and vehicle operation 
supervision, garbage collection and transportation management, garbage classification man agement, station 
operation supervision and other applications through the use of intelligent vehicle terminals, garbage classification 
cameras, intelligent analysis supercomputers and other devices, facilitating refined supervision of urban appearance 
and environmental sanitation. 
5) Targeted service delivery 
Hikvision integrates industry-specific software platforms such as the smart elderly care platform, online market 
supervision platform, and urban parking operation management platform to provide complete solutions for business 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
101 
areas including civil administration -led elderly support, market supervision, and smart parking, helping enhance 
service precision. 
In the field of civil administration-led elderly support, with a focus on scenarios such as institutional elderly 
care, elderly caregiving, and service supervision, Hikvision implements applications such as smart caregiving and 
smart wards through devices including nurse station hosts, bedside terminals, fall detection radars, and smart care 
terminals, facilitating the intelligent transformation of elderly care services. 
Hikvision provides an intelligent elderly care application that conducts intelligent analysis of scenarios such 
as falls, prolonged sitting/standing, and hand-raising assistance requests, delivers continuous health monitoring for 
the elderly and builds health profiles, helping to create safer care environments. It offers a smart ward system 
tailored to elderly care facility requirements, providing bed management, bedside call functions, and  intelligent 
reminders to facilitate timely communication between medical staff and patients. Additionally, it delivers a safety 
management system for elderly care institutions, featuring safety management archives, self -inspections, and 
preventive measures, to enhance institutional safety management standards. 
In the field of market supervision , Hikvision has built an online market supervision platform for catering 
businesses, elevators, agricultural markets, and other scenarios through the use of elevator  health monitoring 
cameras, elevator safety gateways, anti -oil cameras, and other products, facilitating refined supervision services.  
The Company provides a catering online supervision application that conducts intelligent analysis of kitchen staff 
attire, pest control measures, and standardized operations, delivering visible, traceable, and transparent production 
process services for regulators and the public to help create safer, more hygienic, and standardized catering 
environments. Its elevator online supervision application enables oversight of elevator faults, maintenance quality, 
and annual inspections to support operational service upgrades, while also implementing video inspections and e -
bike entry detection services to enhance elevator safety.  In the area of smart parking , Hikvision provides a 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
102 
management platform for urban parking operations with a focus on roadside parking, off -road closed parking lots 
and other scenarios.The platform allows resource management, operation management, customer serv ice 
management, financial management, operation and maintenance management, public services, and other urban 
parking business applications through the use of parking space detection cameras, radar-video assisted parking posts, 
geomagnetic instruments, entrance and exit control equipment and other devices, providing professional parking 
operations services and promoting more efficient and convenient parking experience. 
6) Livable ecological environments 
Hikvision leverages technologies including multi-dimensional perception, large model -based intelligent 
analysis, and digital twins to establish comprehensive ecological monitoring, management, and service systems for 
sectors such as natural resources, forestry and grassland, water resources, water management, ecological 
environment, and meteorology, aiming to make ecosystems more livable. 
In smart water governance, Hikvision leverages technologies such as digital twin water conservancy "Sky-
Space-Earth-Water-Project" integrated monitoring and perception, multi-scale data platform construction, multi -
modal large model intelligent analysis, and simulation to deepen its expertise in business areas including 
hydrological monitoring and management, flood and drought disaster prevention, water resources management and 
allocation, water conservancy project construction and operation management, rural water infrastructure 
management, and urban -rural water supply and drainage management, further advancing scenario -based 
applications of digital twin technology in water governance. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
103 
Hikvision provides a digital twin hydrological management platform that dynamically monitors rainfall, water 
levels, flow rates, and other hydrological elements, enabling flood prediction and forecasting, threshold-exceeding 
alerts, pre-simulation modeling, and digital contingency plan management to support scientific decision-making for 
flood control and drought prevention. The smart river -lake management platform automatically detects "four 
violations" (illegal sand mining, shoreline damage, waste dumping, water pollution) through AI analysis, enhancing 
long-term river-lake protection and dynamic governance capabilities. The digital twin water conservancy project 
management platform implements applications including safety monito ring and early warning systems for 
reservoirs, sluice-pump stations, and dikes; electromechanical equipment status monitoring alerts; rainfall and water 
condition monitoring alerts; an engineering safety status integrated dashboard;  flood prevention acros s four 
measures (prediction, warning, pre -simulation, contingency planning) and other applications for real -time 
operational safety oversight during flood seasons. The mountain torrent disaster early warning platform and flood 
control command system deliver dynamic monitoring, alert notifications, GIS-based dispatching, conference-based 
coordination, and video-enabled command functions through "full-system access, network-wide connectivity, and 
single-screen visualization," ensuring immediate transmission of flood alerts and hazards to frontline units, vertical 
coordination across command levels, and horizontal collaboration between departments The digital twin irrigation 
district platform supports water measurement management, safety inspections, and water allocation functions 
(prediction, warning, pre-simulation, contingency) to support infrastructure expansion and modernization upgrades 
in irrigation districts. The intelligent water plant safety platform enables smart inspections and secures secondary 
water supply pump rooms, ensuring production safety across water treatment facilities. 
As the construction of digital economy, society and governments gains speed, IoT perception, large models, 
big data, and other technologies are rapidly integrating into urba n and industrial application scenarios, gradually 
fulfilling their value. Safety applications have expanded beyond traditional public security to encompass multi -
dimensional safety management and digital governance scenarios such as public spaces, municipal facilities, traffic 
management, emergency response, and natural resource conservation, with an increasingly mature intelligent 
application system based on all-scenario, round-the-clock, omnidirectional perception capabilities. 
To better serve users, Hikvision adheres to a user value -centric approach, building a full-value-chain closed-
loop ecosystem. Collaborating with partners across the AIoT domain including research institutes, product providers, 
algorithm developers, independent software vendors, system integrators, and distributors, Hikvision deeply analyzes 
user value migration trends and precisely identifies core value demands. By opening foundational capabilities such 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
104 
as perception base, intelligence base, and data base, the Company drives multi -dimensional collaboration in 
technology, products, solutions, and services. This enables continuous iterative upgrades across products, systems, 
and services, ultimately delivering superior solutions for users in the public service sector. 
3.4 Domestic SMB b usiness: Advancing the digital transformation of SMB marketing -sales-service 
operations to enhance industry-wide service capabilities 
Hikvision is advancing the digital transformation of marketing, sales, and services for its SMB (Small and 
Medium-sized Business) segment, leveraging digital tools and platforms to better serve distributors and collaborate 
with them in supporting installers of all types. This initiative helps distributors and installer clients improve service 
quality, reduce costs, and increa se efficiency, fostering healthy industry development. Together with ecosystem 
partners, the Company delivers cost-effective, lightweight, and customized solutions tailored to the specific needs 
of SMB users. 
 
1) Capability building: Establishing a customer workbench to enhance full-chain collaboration efficiency 
Leveraging Hikvision SMBG E-commerce and Hikvision SMBG HikLink, Hikvision connects and empowers 
distributors and installers to reach and serve SMB users through digital marketing. This initiative bu ilds an AIoT 
industry collaboration network, driving industrial prosperity and accelerating digital transformation and upgrading. 
Hikvision SMBG E-commerce: This is a digital empowerment platform for marketing -sales-service in the 
security industry that primarily serves distributors and installers, enhancing efficiency across marketing, pre-sales, 
delivery, and operations and maintenance. Throughout the year, the platform has continuously optimized features, 
enabling professionals to swiftly search and comp are products and solutions. It supports AI -driven intelligent 
marketing, scenario-based product selection and configuration, rapid batch debugging, and project management, 
currently boasting millions of registered users. Simultaneously, the platform assist s distributors in refining 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
105 
omnichannel digital operations while building a service matching ecosystem between active service providers and 
qualified local distributors, exploring upgrades to new channel models to elevate SMB user experiences. 
Hikvision SMBG HikLink: This is an AIoT cloud platform that serves SMB users. The platform mainly 
provides general IoT capabilities such as video surveillance, access control, alarm systems, attendance management, 
visitor management, public address, network management, smart fire protection, and information release. Through 
collaborations with ecosystem partners, it delivers scenario-specific solutions for SMBs in residential communities, 
factories, schools, construction sites, industrial parks, farms, and other settings. Leveraging human/vehicle detection 
algorithms as the foundation, the platform offers intelligent scenario algorithms and smart notifications to drive 
digital and intelligent transformation for SMBs, democratizing intelligent technologies. 
2) Business focus: Building a smart service network, upgrading channel models, and empowering partners 
to deliver efficient professional services to end-users. 
Driving digital transformation for security professionals to enhance service capabilities 
Hikvision SMBG E-commerce empowers security professionals across pre -sales, in-process, and post-sales 
processes through modules like configuration tools, product documentation, solution galleries, service hubs, and 
device setup/debugging. These features enhance content marketing and service support, already serving millions of 
professionals with key functions utilized over tens of millions of times. The Company will further expand 
professional channels and build a nationwide service network to provide customers with dive rse product options 
and timely local professional services. 
Delivering one-stop solutions and services to empower SMB digital transformation 
In response to SMBs' needs for lightweight and user -friendly products and systems, Hikvision has created 
Hikvision SMBG HikLink, an AIoT cloud platform that provides compact yet efficient solutions and standardized 
services to make digital transformation more accessible, efficient, and cost -effective for SMBs. The platform 
integrates multi-terminal capabilities, expands lightweight AI algorithms, and collaborates with ecosystem partners 
to deploy vertical small scenario-specific solutions nationwide, with device deployments and user base maintaining 
rapid growth throughout the year. 
Looking ahead, Hikvision will uphold its collaborative win-win philosophy, working closely with partners to 
develop more market-driven competitive solutions. The Company will continue to connect and serve SMB users, 
comprehensively supporting their digital transformation from optimizing opera tional processes to innovating 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
106 
business models, ultimately building an interconnected IoT ecosystem to unlock new growth possibilities. 
3.5 International business: Continuously enhancing global product and marketing-sales-service systems and 
building a more open global collaboration ecosystem 
Positioning its international operations as a "leading global provider of AIoT products and solutions", 
Hikvision implements country -specific and product -specific marketing strategies. Adapting to local conditions 
based on national development stages, the Company advances localized marketing strategies to continuously 
enhance overseas product competitiveness and localization alignment. Hikvision's business now spans more than 
180 countries and regions, delivering localized services to clients and end-users worldwide. 
1） Continuously building a solid and comprehensive AIoT product -technology-solution framework for 
global operations 
While consolidating its core video -centric business, Hikvision actively develops a second growth curve in 
overseas markets. Centered on imaging technologies, AI capabilities, and multi -dimensional perception, the 
Company continuously enhances its AIoT product portfolio tailored to international demands. With robust 
distribution channels and str ong brand influence, Hikvision steadily expands project markets while enriching 
industry-specific solutions. The synergistic development of channel-driven and project-driven markets establishes 
a sustainable long-term development path for its global business. 
24/7 all-environment imaging technology: Leveraging next-gen AI-ISP technology, Hikvision continues to 
launch innovative products including ColorVu 3.0 and DarkerFighter 2.0 front -end devices, delivering ultra-clear 
color images with rich details under ultra-low illumination. The Company offers environmentally adaptive cameras 
featuring polymer anti-corrosion coatings, non-powered and network-independent operation, extreme temperature 
resistance, self -cleaning, anti -vibration stabilization, and macro/te lephoto capabilities, ensuring stable high -
definition imaging in harsh conditions. 
Precision AI applications: Powered by its Guanlan Large Model, Hikvision has debuted overseas-oriented AI 
products including DeepinView cameras and DeepinMind back-end systems. These solutions significantly improve 
target detection accuracy and reduce false alarms in perimeter security scenarios. 
Expanding multi -dimensional perception capabilities : Building on visible light perception, Hikvision 
continuously expands into multi-dimensional perception technologies including infrared, millimeter-wave radar, X-
ray, and acoustic wave, further enriching IoT perception capabilities. The Company has launched a comprehensive 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
107 
portfolio of perception products such as radar systems, thermal imaging devices, alarm systems, fiber-optic sensors, 
and X-ray solutions. By fusing visual perception technology with other perception technologies, the Company 
continues to enhance scenario-specific AIoT capabilities to develop innovative solutions such as radar-vision fusion 
2.0 for ultra -long-range traffic incident detection and vibration -sensing fiber solutions for precise anomaly 
localization in perimeters and pipelines. 
Catering to SMBs' needs for lightweight and user -friendly products and systems,  Hikvision delivers 
comprehensive yet easy-to-deploy scenario-specific solutions. These integrate multi-terminal capabilities through 
unified platform management of CCTV , access control/attendance systems, intercoms, alarms, and network 
deployment, enabling efficient and cost -effective digital transformation. In video -centric business, the Company 
maintains sustained high-quality growth by consolidating channel foundations and optimizing product portfolios. 
For non-video domains, while effectively leveragin g existing channels, the Company actively expands into new 
ones, with market share continuing to expand. Products including networking equipment, interactive displays, and 
LED solutions have achieved rapid growth. 
In overseas project markets, Hikvision cap italizes on viable opportunities by enhancing solution quality and 
delivery capabilities to ensure large -scale project implementation.  The Company proactively extends industry -
specific AIoT solutions across transportation, commercial, retail, education, healthcare, manufacturing, and energy 
sectors globally. 
In the transportation sector, leveraging visible light perception and radar technologies, the Company delivers 
precise traffic flow analysis, prediction, and control solutions widely adopted across Southeast Asia, Central Asia, 
and the Americas, effectively alleviating congestion, optimizing management, and enhancing mobility efficiency. 
For retail, it pioneers AI-powered loss prevention solutions, deploying advanced algorithms to detect anomalies 
like unattended item removal and unpaid exits, achieving rapid response capabilities. Pa rtnerships with leading 
retailers in multiple countries have significantly improved operational efficiency, establishing strong brand 
recognition in local loss prevention markets.  In education, focusing on classroom innovation, Hikvision refines 
interactive displays and lesson -sharing platforms to drive digital transformation of education.  The Company is 
working with K -12 schools and higher education institutions in over 100 countries to explore new ecosystem 
partnerships that elevate teaching quality and e fficiency. In the sports venue sector , the Company implements 
AIoT technologies to integrate lighting, HV AC, and security systems for centralized intelligent management, 
significantly reducing operational costs.  Simultaneously, the deployment of smart navi gation systems and 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
108 
interactive displays greatly enhances spectator experiences while improving venue operational efficiency and user 
satisfaction. In data centers , the Company employs multi -dimensional monitoring sensors to achieve precise 
monitoring and regulation of environmental parameters, ensuring stable equipment operation and reduced energy 
consumption. Meanwhile, leveraging intelligent security systems, it conducts real -time monitoring of personnel 
access and equipment operational status, effectively safeguarding data security. Across manufacturing and energy 
industries, customized comprehensive campus solutions spanning perimeter security to personnel/vehicle 
management serve over 300 enterprises.  Multi-dimensional perception technologies deeply int egrate with 
production workflows and equipment monitoring, ensuring operational safety and efficiency gains.  
2） Accelerating the development of an international digital marketing -sales-service system to further 
enhance operational capabilities 
Guided by the Company's overarching digital transformation strategy, Hikvision's international business adopts 
a customer-centric approach. Focusing on the entire value chain of core operations, it continuously develops and 
optimizes digital platforms to improve end-to-end operational efficiency from the Company to clients and end-users. 
 
The Company persists in decentralizing channel networks to empower partners and build a collaborative 
ecosystem, shifting its marketing-sales-service focus toward secondary clients and installers. Leveraging the HPP 
(Hik-Partner-Pro) initiative, it simplifies operational interfaces across installers' business workflows, refines toolkits 
for pre-sales, in-process, and post -sales stages, and strengthens promotional operations to continuously enhance 
digital marketing, sales, and service capabilities. A global  content management platform has been established to 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
109 
create an omnichannel content marketing matrix, enabling efficient content creation, management, collaboration, 
distribution, and analytics. Additionally, the Company will advance standardized and systematic client management 
frameworks, improve data governance, and increase marketing precision through higher-quality client data. 
Internationally, the Company prioritizes operational service quality by enhancing digital tools to optimize 
overseas warehouse and logistics management. It actively mobilizes resources to address volatile international 
logistics conditions, ensuring order fulfillment satisfaction. 
With 18 call centers and over 500 authorized service points deployed globally, the Company strengthen s 
localized repair capabilities and accelerates technical response efficiency. Through its eLearning platform, it 
empowers clients with hybrid training programs combining online and offline modules. The Company will further 
upgrade AI -powered customer serv ice solutions and expand self -service capabilities using large models to 
streamline support processes. 
3） Building an international ecosystem collaboration framework through open product technologies and 
cooperative resources 
As a global leader in AIoT products and solutions, Hikvision has been leveraging its localized global sales and 
service networks and comprehensive product portfolio to deeply engage with overseas vertical industry clients 
including system integrators, independent software vendors, and algorithm providers. While delivering proprietary 
end-to-end solutions, the Company enhances partners' comprehensive competitiveness by offering tiered access to 
its technological capabilities and resources, enabling precise adaptation to diverse application scenarios. 
In 2024, the Company continues to strengthen its capabilities in device, platform, and application openness. 
For device openness, it has expanded from video surveillance devices to AIoT devices, establishing a comprehensive 
IoT device openness framework. Regarding platform openness, addressing intelligent transformation trends in the 
industry and fragmented algorithm demands, Hikvision actively promotes its HEOP (Hardware Enabled Open 
Platform) and AI Open Platform to global clients, with over 10 0 registered HEOP partners by the end of 2024. In 
application openness, Hikvision supports overseas partners including alarm monitoring service providers, fleet 
management operators, and smart building maintenance specialists through localized and cloud platform integration 
capabilities. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
110 
In recent years, Hikvision has enhanced its digital capabilities to serve broader client segments. Through the 
Technology Partner Program (TPP), it offers overseas partners product protocol resou rces, development support, 
and technical knowledge bases, while facilitating business expansion via co -listing and joint solution promotion. 
The platform added over 5,000 new users in 2024, with particularly rapid growth in access control and attendance 
partners. By improving data connectivity from products to end-users and leveraging localized teams, the Company 
drives online-to-offline synergies for partners, advancing the AIoT ecosystem. 
Amid accelerating global digital and intelligent transformation, Hikvision will sustain resource investments to 
deepen overseas sales networks and expand open capabilities, with a focus on actionable vertical industries. The 
Company empowers cross-sector clients with scenario-based AIoT solutions to optimize management effectiveness 
and operational efficiency. 
3.6 Innovative business services: Cultivating new growth drivers by exploring AIoT technologies, products, 
and business formats 
Hikvision's continuous efforts in technical reserves and expanding business reach provide a robust foundation 
for innovative business development. While both its core operations and innovative ventures align with the strategic 
focus on AIoT, they differ in technical architectures, product development, and business strategies, forming a 
mutually reinforcing ecosystem that empowers the digital transformation of economies and societies. 
The innovative business portfolio, currently comprising HikRobot, EZVIZ Network, HikMicro, HikAuto, 
HikSemi, HikFire, HikRayin, and HikImaging, has consistently injected new momentum into the Company's long-
term sustainable development through its robust growth. 
Combining multi -dimensional perception, AI, navigation control, and decision -making technologies, 
HikRobot focuses on industrial IoT, smart logistics and intelligent manufacturing w ith solid algorithm expertise, 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
111 
robust software and hardware development capabilities, and a complete marketing service system. HikRobot 
continues to invest in machine vision and robotics to improve quality, reduce costs, and increase efficiency and 
promote the digital and intelligent transformation of manufacturing and logistics. 
In 2024, the Company strengthened its machine vision capabilities by focusing on AI -powered industrial 
quality inspection and 3D technologies, launching products such as 2.5D imaging systems, industry-specific large 
models, and point -line-surface laser sensor series to enhance the VM -centric visual ecosystem. In the mobile 
robotics domain, it introduced the 5th -generation AMR intelligent base with significantly improved autonomy, 
alongside the STU solution for e -commerce logistics to boost storage density and order -picking efficiency. 
Additionally, the Company unveiled serialized articulated robots, completing its strategic "hand -eye-foot" 
coordination framework and establishing an e mbodied intelligent architecture with perception, decision -making, 
mobility, and execution capabilities, comprehensively addressing smart manufacturing demands across industrial 
scenarios while improving production flexibility. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
112 
Committed to becoming a trusted provider of smart home and IoT cloud platform services, EZVIZ Network 
stands out as one of the few AIoT companies in the industry with complete vertical service capabilities including 
hardware design, R&D, manufacturing, and  IoT cloud platform servic es. Leveraging proprietary technologies in 
smart hardware, cloud platforms, AI, and intelligent robots, it delivers AI -driven smart living solutions for 
residential users and offers an open AIoT cloud platform for enterprise developers. 
In 2024, the EZVIZ ecosystem has been comprehensively upgraded to a "2+5+N" architecture, centering on 
smart video and visual technologies. Driven by the two core drivers—AI and the EZVIZ IoT Cloud—it integrates 
five flagship self-developed AI-enabled product lines: smart home cameras, intelligent access control, smart control 
systems, service robots, and wearables. Simultaneously, through open ecosystem controllers, it connects N -type 
peripheral product lines across subsystems including environmental control and smart entert ainment, delivering 
differentiated smart home products addressing security, access control, cleaning, health monitoring, and 
companionship scenarios, thereby enabling intelligent transformation for residential and adjacent spaces. 
HikMicro, rooted in infra red thermal imaging technologies, advances high -value MEMS, optoelectronic 
components, and sensor technologies to build multi -dimensional perception capabilities covering temperature, 
pressure, flow, and level. Targeting AIoT, industrial, outdoor, and embe dded solutions markets, it delivers core 
components, detectors, modules, thermal imagers, and process instrumentation products and overall solutions to the 
world. By focusing on temperatures, HikMicro is developing multi-dimensional technology and product solutions, 
expanding the boundaries of human perception. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
113 
In 2024, Hikmicro launched its 8μm high-sensitivity infrared core components, detectors, and systems in the 
thermal imaging field, alongside shutter -free imaging algorithms and large -model AI-powered image algorithms, 
driving broader adoption of thermal imaging. In smart digital manufacturing, the Company introduced a series of 
smart instrumentation products—including pyrometers, ultrasonic/electromagnetic/mass flow meters, radar level 
gauges, and pressure transmitters—by integrating MEMS sensing and high-precision algorithms. Synergizing with 
its thermal imaging portfolio, these solutions enable end -to-end industrial intelligence spanning process control, 
efficiency optimization, and safety assurance, creating a holistic perception network for enterprises. 
HikAuto, centered on vision and millimeter-wave radar technologies, has become a leading intelligent driving 
sensor supplier in the passenger vehicle OEM market in China, advancing intelligent driving adoption while serving 
commercial vehicle and aftermarket sectors to enhance road safety and freight efficiency. The Company extends 
AI-enhanced radar perception into AIoT applications across industrial, transportation, and perimeter security sectors. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
114 
Following its 2024 integration of Sensortech, HikAuto strengthened its R&D scale and capabilities, 
maintaining domestic market leadership in vehicle -mounted cameras and millimeter -wave radars. Leveraging its 
accumulated full-stack in-house R&D capabilities , the Company has achieved sustained breakthroughs in new 
product development and customer -designated mass production, securing projects for products including 4D 
imaging millimeter-wave radars, L2+ integrated driving -parking systems, and cabin -parking solutions, aligning 
with the industry -wide acceleration of intelligent driving adoption. For commercial vehicles, HikAuto delivers 
scenario-based smart systems addressing safety and efficiency amid industry trends of electrification and smart 
transformation. Globally, it develops compliant ADAS products aligned with regional safety regulations and works 
with partners to expand market reach. Concurrently, the Company advances in -vehicle video applications for 
consumer markets with lightweight smart features and miniaturized functionalities to safeguard journey safety for 
vehicle owners. 
HikSemi specializes in providing professional storage products and solutions for enterprise clients and end -
users. It focuses on data centers, in -vehicle applications, industrial controls, smart security, consumer electronics, 
and PC a ssembly, continuously enhancing competitiveness in vertical markets. HikSemi possesses full -stack 
capabilities spanning product design, firmware algorithm development, packaging and testing , to intelligent 
manufacturing mass production and delivery. By continuously expanding its product portfolio, advancing 
technological upgrades, and enhancing operational efficiency, the Company aims to become China's leading 
integrated storage solution provider, empowering enterprises and organizations in their digital transformation. 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
115 
HikFire operates across general and industrial fire protection sectors as an intelligent fire IoT and smart 
management solution provider centered on fire detection, multi-dimensional perception, wireless IoT, and AI video 
analytics. It supports urban fire IoT deployment and enterprise digital transformation, delivering one-stop fire safety 
systems and management services for public facilities, industrial parks, SMBs, and house holds, while building a 
comprehensive fire safety ecosystem with its four -dimensional smart system integrating perception, prevention, 
management, and emergency response. 
HikRayin is focusing on X -ray imaging technologies, dedicated to becoming a leading technology R&D, 
manufacturing, sales, and leasing services provider of invisible light detection equipment. The Company maintains 
in-house production capabilities for security inspection machines, security doors, industrial X -ray equipment, and 
a full rang e of supporting products. With long -standing expertise in X -ray technology, AI, equipment IoT, etc., 
HikRayin continuously empowers industries through technological innovation and value creation in smart security 
inspection and intelligent manufacturing sectors. 
HikImaging, deeply rooted in the medical technology sector, delivers OEM/ODM solutions for medical 
endoscopy systems globally. Focused on multi -dimensional sensing, intelligent analytics, and audiovisual 

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
116 
transmission technologies in healthcare, it partners with medical device manufacturers to deliver rigid/flexible 
endoscope solutions and surgical video management systems, advancing digital and intelligent transformation in 
operating rooms and clinical settings. HikImaging focuses on advancing multi-dimensional perception, intelligent 
analytics, and audio -visual transmission/computing/display/control technologies for medical scenarios. The 
Company provides medical device manufacturers with comprehensive solutions including rigid/flexible endoscopes 
and surgical audiovisual management systems, collaborating with partners to drive digital and intelligent 
transformation in operating rooms and clinical diagnostic environments. 
  

                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
117 
II. Analysis of Core Competitiveness 
In the context of the deepening societa l digital transformation, the breakthrough advancements in artificial 
intelligence (AI) technology have imparted a strong impetus to the digitalization process. Hikvision continuously 
drives the implementation of cutting-edge technologies in the AIoT domain, striving to balance the fulfillment of 
customer personalized needs, the development of scenario -based solutions, and the realization of its own scale 
advantages. Hikvision maintains industry -leading positions in technology accumulation, marketing strate gies, 
manufacturing capabilities, operational efficiency, and talent reserves. The Company is dedicated to refining its 
business processes and organizational structures to better address fragmented demand, adheres to innovation in 
technology, and advances the digital transformation of its marketing and service operations. Hikvision promotes 
profound operational upgrades internally, consistently reinforcing its competitive edge in the industry. By 
empowering diverse industries, Hikvision contributes to impro ving quality, reducing costs, and enhancing 
efficiency across society.. 
1. Maintain High-Level R&D Investment and Deepening Empowerment with AI Large Model Technology 
Since its inception, Hikvision has consistently been dedicated to technological innovation, continually 
integrating general technologies (hardware technology, materials and processes, embedded software, system-level 
software development, big data technology, and cybersecurity) with application -specific technologies to foster 
product i nnovation and build a comprehensive product portfolio ranging from detectors, mo dules, devices to 
systems. As an AIoT company, sensing technology has been a strategic focus of long-term investment for Hikvision. 
The Company has expanded sensing technology beyond visible light into domains such as millimeter waves, 
infrared, X-rays, lasers, and ultraviolet rays, while integrating acoustic waves, vibrations, temperature and humidity, 
pressure, and magnetic field sensing methods. This approach enables the Comp any to develop multi-dimensional 
sensing fusion applications.  Hikvision is advancing the innovative applications of AI across society and the 
economy, developing the Hikvision Guanlan Large AI Model to enhance the accurate understanding of dynamic 
scenarios and the effective handling of complex tasks. This innovation empowers software and hardware solutions 
with more precise sensing capabilities and more robust cognitive abilities, driving continuous  upgrade in security 
business and scalable implementation of scene-specific digital transformation. 
Hikvision has maintained a high-level R&D investment, with cumulative R&D expenses reaching RMB47.702 
billion over the past five years. Beyond its Hangzhou headquarters, which houses research institutes, hardware 
product R&D centers, and software product R&D centers, the Company has established numerous local R&D 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
118 
centers both domestically and internationally, forming a multi-tiered R&D system centered at the headquarters and 
radiating to regional offices. Hikvision will continue to invest strongly in R&D, reinforcing and consolidating its 
AIoT technology foundation, deepening research and application of large AI models, and expanding the variety of 
smart IoT devices. By seizing opportunities in digital transformation , Hikvision aims to solidify its market 
leadership in the AIoT industry. 
During this reporting period, Hikvision leveraged its deep technical capabilities and industry insights to deeply 
integrate cutting-edge large AI model technology. The Company has driven the iterative optimization of new digital 
products, enriched its digital product portfolio, and accelerated the expansion of scen ario-bases digital 
transformation business. 
2. Continuous Improvement of Domes tic and International Marketing, Sales and Service Networks and 
Enhancement of Digital Capabilities 
Hikvision is committed to establishing a comprehensive global marketing, sales and service network to ensure 
rapid responses to customer needs. Within China, the Company has developed a marketing and s ervice network 
centered on cities. Through 32 provincial business centers and over 300 city branches and offices, the network spans 
the entire country, forming a hierarchical marketing structure organized at the city level. Internationally, Hikvision 
has advanced its "localization" strategy, decentralizing operational decision-making across four major regions: Pan-
Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, Pan-Europe, and the Americas. The Company adheres to the strategy of "one 
country, one policy" and "one product, one strategy" achieving business presence in over 180 major countries and 
regions worldwide, providing localized services to local customers and end-users. 
In terms of service capabilities, Hikvision has a three-tiered vertical service system comprising the Hangzhou 
Global Technical Support and Service Center, regional service centers, and authorized customer service stations. 
This structure enables global, locally embedded, and in -depth service delivery. Within China, the Com pany has 
established 32 provincial technical service departments, over 300 regional service centers, and has partnered with 
over 3,000 key partners and authorized service providers. Internationally, Hikvision has set up 30 direct after-sales 
service centers and over 400 authorized customer service stations. Additionally, the Company offers a "replacement 
instead of repair" service for certain products and has optimized local delivery chains by expanding the coverage of 
overseas localized warehouses, improving their inventory turnover and delivery efficiency, thereby enabling faster 
response to customer needs. 
Hikvision is also fully advancing its digital marketing and service strategy, encompassing the entire marketing 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
119 
and service process. This is achieved through initiatives such as the development of a digital marketing and service 
platform, application of AI technologies, and digital operations. These efforts enhance promotional activities and 
facilitate customer and user engagement. The Company continues to enhance its digital capabilities and share them 
externally with partners, empowering them to better serve users. This, in turn, improves the Company's overall 
operational efficiency, from end to end—from the Company to its customers and end -users—while strengthening 
its core competitiveness in marketing and services.. 
3. Continuous Development of a Flexible Manufacturing System to Strengthen Supply Chain Resilience 
The AIoT industry is characterized by diverse and personalized customer demands, with Hikv ision offering 
over 30,000 distinct hardware products. Production must thus cater to the requirements of small -volume, multi-
batch, and large-scale customized orders. To tackle these challenges, Hikvision has consistently focused on building 
a flexible and  efficient manufacturing system. This effort involves enhancing lean production, automation 
capabilities, and leveraging AI technology to improve production scheduling efficiency and the consistency of 
output quality. The company operates manufacturing bases in locations such as Hangzhou Tonglu, Chongqing, and 
Wuhan, while steadily advancing plans to establish and expand new bases. Additionally, through its overseas 
facilities in India, Brazil, and the UK, Hikvision implements localized manufacturing to ens ure continuous global 
product supply. 
Hikvision has always prioritized the establishment of long -term, stable partnerships with suppliers. The 
Company collaborates closely with suppliers to iteratively upgrade raw materials and components, transferring its 
accumulated expertise in digitalizing the supply chain to industry partners. This collaboration fosters a healthy 
supplier ecosystem, thereby strengthening the overall industry supply chain stability. 
The Company promotes the deep application of scenario-based digital products within its production campuses, 
utilizing its own operations as a model for continuous iteration. By driving innovative applications of automation, 
digitization, and intelligent technologies, Hikvision improves supply quality, enhances operational efficiency, and 
reduces production costs. 
4. Continuous Advancement of Management System Reform and Comprehensive Promotion of Internal 
Digital Transformation 
In the ever-evolving market competition, a company's ability to efficiently allocate internal resources, reduce 
internal communication costs, and achieve high-efficiency collaboration is a crucial aspect of its competitiveness. 
As the Company's business continues to grow and evolve, its resource organization methods and management 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
120 
approaches are also being continuously optimized. 
In terms of business direction and target setting, the Company employs the BLM strategic planning 
methodology to refresh its strategic planning  and annual business plan on a rolling basis each year. This ensures  
that all business teams and departments are well-aligned, targets are clearly defined, and responsibilities are assigned 
effectively. In ter ms of internal management, the C ompany is strengthening its governance and organizational 
capabilities in change management, focusing on the continuous improvement of business profitability and 
management capabilities, and steadily advancing its internal digital transformation efforts. In terms of the direction 
of the Company's transformation, efforts are being made to align and integrate resources across the Company, with 
a focus on five key areas: enterprise -level marketing digitization, enterprise -level R&D and quality digitization, 
enterprise-level operational analysis and refinement, enterprise -level data governa nce capability -building, and 
enterprise-level AI capability-building. Additionally, the Company is developing digital capabilities across various 
domains to drive high -quality transformation execution through high -quality planning. Relying  on IT system 
development, the C ompany is continuously optimizing and improving business processes and enhancing system 
efficiency to build refined operational capabilities. In  terms of risk management, the C ompany has established a 
robust risk management system, with its global compliance governance and risk management capabilities steadily 
improving. 
5. Continuous Development of Talent Ecosystem and Igniting Organizational Innovation Vitality 
The Company firmly believes that talent is a key driver of sustainable enterpris e development and a core 
element of its competitiveness. Guided by the people-oriented philosophy of "empowering individuals and growing 
together," the Company actively attracts and cultivates talent from around the globe. By continuously refining its 
talent identification and performance evaluation mechanisms, the Company adopts scientific methods to identify, 
evaluate, and utilize talent, fully motivating employees' enthusiasm and creativity while enhancing organizational 
capabilities. With its business strategy as the driving force, the Company is committed to building agile and efficient 
organizations. It ensures a steady supply of talent for critical positions, achieving effective alignment between 
people and roles to support profitable business growth. 
The Company integrates compensation and benefits with  equity follow-investment for innovative business , 
creating a comprehensive employee return system. A mature mechanism for employee participation in and sharing 
of the Company's growth has been established. Employees who participate in equity follow-investments contribute 
to the Company's performance and, in turn, receive long-term personal rewards. This creates a mutually reinforcing 
relationship between the Company's long-term development and the continuous growth of its talent.  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
121 
III. Core Business Analysis 
1. Overview 
The continuous evolution of societal demands has consistently created opportunities for industrial 
transformation. Over the past two decades, the development of social safety systems has driven the rapid growth of 
the s ecurity industry. Currently, enhancing industrial efficiency is a key factor for China, as a manufacturing 
powerhouse, to further strengthen its competitiveness.  Since its founding over twenty years ago, Hikvision has 
seized the opportunities presented by the rapid development of the security industry, emerging as a global leader in 
the field. Throughout this journey, the Company has built a robust ecosystem of AIoT technologies and products. 
By leveraging scenario-based digital solutions, Hikvision has played a significant role in driving industrial upgrades 
and improving various aspects of social governance and people's daily lives, enhancing quality, reducing costs, and 
boosting efficiency. 
In 2024, amid a complex domestic and international environment, Hikvision remained steadfast in its approach, 
responding to uncertainties with a proactive yet prudent mindset. Du ring the reporting period, the C ompany 
achieved an operating income of RMB 92.50 billion, reflecting a year -on-year increase of 3.53%. The net profit 
attributable to shareholders of the listed Company amounted to RMB 11.98 billion, representing a year -on-year 
decline of 15.10%. The proportion of innovative businesses in the overall business mix continued to rise, with key 
divisions such as HikRobot, Ezviz, and HikMicro achieving leading positions in their respective fields, pr oviding 
strong support for the Company's business growth. Overlooking the lucrative growth of its overseas main business, 
Hikvision adopted region-specific strategies in its four major global regions, leading to a steady increase in market 
share for its channel business, as well as the accumulation of project capabilities and experience . In the face of 
significant domestic business environment pressures, the development of scenario -based digital business helped 
open up new avenues for the domestic main business, establishing a second growth curve for the Company. 
Guided by its strategic positioning in AIoT, Hikvision made positive progress across various domains, 
including its technological and product ecosystems, domestic and international marketing systems, production and 
manufacturing capabilities, and innovative business units. The Company is steadily advancing in the AIoT sector. 
1. Maintain R&D Investment and Strengthen AIoT Technology and Product Ecosystem. Over the past 
decade, Hikvision has accumulated significant advancements in multi -dimensional sensing and perception fusion 
technologies. The Company's research and development in artificial intelligence has also reached a certain scale. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
122 
The iterative evolution of various technology sets has brought a positive cluster effect to Hikvision's product 
development. Furthermore, the advancement of large model technology has expanded the boundaries of perceptual 
intelligence and cognitive intelligence, delivering substantial improvements to both the hardware and software 
products and solutions of Hikvision. Build ing on these achievemen ts, the C ompany has rapidly advanced its 
innovation in digital products and large model applications. In 2024, Hikvision continued to launch a wide range of 
new products tailored to new scenarios and demands, featuring significantly enhanced functionalities. These efforts 
have comprehensively elevated the intelligence level of its products and continuously expanded the boundaries of 
its AIoT business. 
2. Continuous Evolution of Marketing Organizations to Adapt Resource Allocation to Business 
Development Needs. Hikvision has continuously refined its regional market penetration strategy, optimizing its 
business layout. Domestically, the Company operates 32 provincial business centers and over 300 city -level 
subsidiaries. Internationally, it adopts a localized approach with the strategy of "one country, one policy" and "one 
product, one strategy", embedding business operations at the grassroots level to ensure marketing activities closely 
align with user needs and deeply understand their requirements.  Building o n this regional strategy , Hikvision 
integrates industry and regional resources for vertical industries such as the financial sector and other sectors 
requiring similar vertical management. This allows the Company to adapt its marketing organization structures to 
ongoing business changes. Additionally, based on business differences, Hikvision has adopted independent 
operations and performance evaluations for certain product lines, industry lines, and innovative busines ses. This 
approach enables the C ompany to strengthen smaller product categories and industries, ensuring organizational 
development ad apts to business evolution. Furthermore, Hikvision is comprehensively advancing the digital 
transformation of its marketing systems to enhance the end -to-end operational efficiency of its customer -facing 
services. 
3. Continuously Polishing Supply Chain Flexibility to Drive Cost Reduction and Efficiency 
Improvement. The AIoT industry is characterized by multi -category, small-batch, and multi -batch production, 
requiring a manufacturing system that ensures product quality while also allowing flexible switching of production 
capacity. Hikvision has long been dedicated to building a flexible and efficient manufacturi ng system, widely 
adopting the C ompany's self-developed automation and intelligent production solutions to continuously enhance 
manufacturing capabilities. In 2024, Hikvision vigorously promoted the practical verification of digital products 
within its own factories. By innovatively applying automated, digitalized, and intelligent technologies and products, 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
123 
the Company improved supply quality, strengthened operational efficiency, and reduced production costs. 
4. Diversified Innovation Business Layout, Supporting the Implementation of the Intelligent IoT 
Strategy. In 2024, the total revenue from innovative businesses reached RMB22.48 billion, accounting for 24.31% 
of the Company's overall income. HikRobot focuses on industrial IoT, smart logistics, and intelligent manufacturing, 
continuously deepening its investment in machine vision and mobile robots, and newly adding a full series of joint 
robots, gradually completing the strategic layout of "hand, eye, and foot" collaboration, establishing itself as a 
leading company in the domestic industry. Ezviz possesses comprehensive capabilities from hardware design, R&D, 
and manufacturing to IoT cloud platforms, becoming one of the few AIoT companies in the industry with complete 
vertical integrated service capabilities. HikMicro specializes in high -value-added MEM S, optoelectronic 
components, and sensor technologies, building multi-dimensional sensing capabilities in temperature, pressure, flow, 
and material level, becoming a leading domestic enterprise in thermal imaging. Other innovative businesses are in 
a high-growth phase, with market competitiveness continuously improving. The innovative businesses and the main 
business collectively revolve around the AIoT business direction, with a unified and divided business layout, jointly 
supporting the Company's sustained and stable growth, driving the Company to steadily advance towards its goals. 
 
  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
124 
2. Revenue / cost of sales and services  
(1) Revenue structure 
Unit: RMB 
 
2024 2023 (Restated) YoY Change 
(%) Amount Proportion to 
revenue Amount Proportion to 
revenue 
Revenue 92,495,525,118.30 100.00% 89,341,177,610.40 100.00% 3.53% 
Classified by industry 
AIoT products and services 92,495,525,118.30 100.00% 89,341,177,610.40 100.00% 3.53% 
Classified by product 
Products and services for 
main business (Note 1) 67,963,258,099.83 73.48% 68,781,078,704.92 76.99% -1.19% 
Constructions for main 
business 2,048,116,006.90 2.21% 2,007,188,913.81 2.25% 2.04% 
Subtotal 70,011,374,106.73 75.69% 70,788,267,618.73 79.23% -1.10% 
Robotic business 5,928,825,303.14 6.41% 4,940,495,688.57 5.53% 20.00% 
Smart home business 5,190,222,359.58 5.61% 4,686,023,001.37 5.25% 10.76% 
Thermal imaging business 4,191,132,575.45 4.53% 3,284,778,727.13 3.68% 27.59% 
Auto electronics business 3,919,493,044.46 4.24% 2,706,680,020.16 3.03% 44.81% 
Storage business 2,314,389,221.29 2.50% 1,931,387,706.41 2.16% 19.83% 
Other innovative businesses 
(Note 2) 940,088,507.65 1.02% 1,003,544,848.03 1.12% -6.32% 
Subtotal (Note 3) 22,484,151,011.57 24.31% 18,552,909,991.67 20.77% 21.19% 
Classified by region 
Domestic 60,601,005,007.24 65.52% 60,373,572,006.00 67.58% 0.38% 
Overseas 31,894,520,111.06 34.48% 28,967,605,604.40 32.42% 10.10% 
Note 1: Main business refers to the business parts other than the innovative businesses. 
Note 2: Other innovative businesses include the products and services of the innovative business subsidiaries, such as HikFire, Rayin 
and HikImaging. Same below. 
Note 3: The data listed in the subtotals may differ slightly from the aggregated results of the relevant individual data due to rounding. 
 
Revenue structure (note 4) 
Unit: RMB 100mn  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
125 
 2024 2023 (Restated) YoY Change (%) 2022 (Restated) 
Domestic main 
business 
PBG 134.67 153.54 -12.29% 161.35 
EBG 176.51 178.45 -1.09% 165.05 
SMBG 119.71 126.79 -5.58% 124.97 
Other products and 
services for main 
business 
9.33 9.33 0.00% 9.28 
Overseas main 
business 
Products and services 
for main business 
259.89 239.77 8.39% 220.32 
Innovative businesses (note5) 224.84 185.53 21.19% 150.70 
Total 924.96 893.41 3.53% 831.67 
Note 4: The operating income from domestic main business (including three major business groups in domestic and other products 
and services for main business) and overseas main business only include Hikvision's main business's products and services, 
excluding revenue from innovative businesses. 
Note 5: Innovative businesses' revenue includes its domestic and overseas revenue 
Note 6: The data listed in the subtotals may differ slightly from the aggregated results of the relevant individual data due to rounding. 
 
 
(2) Industries, products or regions accounting for more than 10% of the Company's revenue or operating 
profit  
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Unit: RMB 
 Revenue Cost of sales and 
services Gross margin YoY Change 
(%) of revenue 
YoY Change 
(%) of operating 
cost  
YoY Change 
(%) of gross 
margin 
Classified by industry 
AIoT products and 
services 92,495,525,118.30 51,953,857,912.21 43.83% 3.53% 4.47% -0.50% 
Classified by product 
Products and 
services for main 
business 
67,963,258,099.83 36,860,856,267.41 45.76% -1.19% -0.31% -0.48% 
Constructions for 
main business 2,048,116,006.90 1,624,213,884.66 20.70% 2.04% 6.17% -3.08% 
Innovative 
businesses 22,484,151,011.57 13,468,787,760.14 40.10% 21.19% 19.95% 0.62% 
Subtotal 92,495,525,118.30 51,953,857,912.21 43.83% 3.53% 4.47% -0.50% 
Classified by region  
Domestic 60,601,005,007.24 34,769,215,813.85 42.63% 0.38% 2.34% -1.10% 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
126 
 Revenue Cost of sales and 
services Gross margin YoY Change 
(%) of revenue 
YoY Change 
(%) of operating 
cost  
YoY Change 
(%) of gross 
margin 
Overseas 31,894,520,111.06 17,184,642,098.36 46.12% 10.10% 9.05% 0.52% 
When the statistical caliber of the Company 's main business data is adjusted during the reporting period, the 
Company's main business data would be adjusted according to the end of the reporting period in the most recent 
period. 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
(3) If revenue from physical products sales greater than revenue from providing services 
√ Yes □ No 
Industry Item Unit 2024 2023 YoY Change (%) 
AIoT products and 
services 
Sales volume Per unit 245,393,303 227,487,010 7.87% 
Output volume Per unit 256,348,512 240,073,553 6.78% 
Explanation on why the related data varied by more than 30% on a YoY basis 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
(4) Fulfillment of signed significant sales contracts and procurement contracts by the reporting period 
□ Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
(5) Cost of sales and services structure 
Classified by industry  
Unit: RMB 
Industry Item 
2024 2023 (Restated) 
YoY Change 
(%) Amount 
Proportion to 
cost of sales 
and services 
Amount 
Proportion to 
cost of sales 
and services 
AIoT products 
and services 
Cost of sales 
and services 51,953,857,912.21 100.00% 49,732,768,547.57 100.00% 4.47% 
 
Classified by product  
Unit: RMB  
Product Item 
2024 2023 (Restated) 
YoY Change 
(%) Amount 
Proportion to 
cost of sales 
and services 
Amount 
Proportion to 
cost of sales 
and services 
Products and 
services for main 
business 
Cost of sales 
and services 36,860,856,267.41 70.95% 36,974,434,806.35 74.35% -0.31% 
Constructions for 
main business 
Cost of sales 
and services 1,624,213,884.66 3.13% 1,529,858,191.39 3.08% 6.17% 
Innovative 
businesses 
Cost of sales 
and services 13,468,787,760.14 25.92% 11,228,475,549.83 22.58% 19.95% 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
127 
Product Item 
2024 2023 (Restated) 
YoY Change 
(%) Amount 
Proportion to 
cost of sales 
and services 
Amount 
Proportion to 
cost of sales 
and services 
Subtotal 
Cost of sales 
and services 51,953,857,912.21 100.00% 49,732,768,547.57 100.00% 4.47% 
Note: The data listed in the subtotals may differ slightly from the aggregated results of the relevant individual data due to rounding. 
 
(6) Any change in consolidation scope during the reporting period 
√Yes □ No   
During the reporting period, the Group established 4 domestic subsidiaries, 3 overseas subsidiaries, and gained 
actual control of 1 subsidiary through entrusted management agreements. All of this result in changes in the scope 
of its consolidation scope. For details, please refer to changes in the consolidation scope in Note (VI) to the financial 
statements. 
 
(7) Significant change or adjustment of the Company's business, products or services during the reporting 
period:  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
 
(8) Major customers and suppliers:  
Sales to major customers of the Company  
Sales to top five customers (RMB)    2,343,413,902.30  
Total sales to top five customers as a percentage of the total sales for the year (%)  2.53% 
Total sales to the related parties in top five customers as a percentage of the total 
sales for the year (%)  0.00% 
Information on top five customers  
No.  Name of customer  Sales amount (RMB)  Percentage of total sales for the year 
1 First               575,507,193.15  0.62% 
2 Second              513,745,986.05  0.56% 
3 Third               479,382,722.27  0.52% 
4 Fourth               411,281,576.78  0.44% 
5 Fifth               363,496,424.05  0.39% 
Total --           2,343,413,902.30  2.53% 
Other information of major customers  
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
Major suppliers of the Company  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
128 
Total purchases from top five suppliers (RMB)       6,247,846,592.09  
Total purchases from top five suppliers as a percentage of the total purchases for the year (%)   12.79% 
Total purchases from the related parties in the top five suppliers as a percentage of the total 
purchases for the year (%) 6.32% 
Information on top five suppliers of the Company  
No.  Supplier name  Purchase amount (RMB) Percentage of total purchase for the year 
1 First           1,897,826,757.19 3.89% 
2 Second  1,189,548,670.24 2.43% 
3 Third            1,088,587,794.52  2.23% 
4 Fourth            1,086,560,559.94  2.22% 
5 Fifth               985,322,810.20  2.02% 
Total  --        6,247,846,592.09 12.79% 
Other information of major suppliers  
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Some of the top five suppliers are related parties of the Company, and the Company strictly operates within the pre-
approved estimated limits for routine related -party transactions. In addition, directors, supervisors, senior 
management, key technical personnel, shareholders with more than 5% equity, actual controllers, and other related 
parties of the Company do not have any direct or indirect interests in major suppliers. For furthe r details, please 
refer to "Section X (11) - Related Party Relationships and Transactions." 
3. Expenses  
Unit: RMB  
 2024 2023 (Restated) YoY Change 
(%) Note of significant change  
Selling expenses 12,051,218,102.62 10,746,788,076.01 12.14% No significant change 
Administrative expenses 3,095,939,643.92 2,770,781,203.45 11.74% No significant change 
R&D expenses 11,864,013,392.27 11,392,948,404.47 4.13% No significant change 
Financial expenses -114,817,493.16 -749,800,283.79 84.69% 
Affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations, 
foreign exchange loss increased  
 
4. R&D Investment 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
R&D personnel of the Company  
 2024 2023 Change Percentage 
Number of R&D staff (ppl)  28,272  28,479  -0.73% 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
129 
 2024 2023 Change Percentage 
R&D staff as percentage of Total 
headcount  47.37% 48.65% -1.28% 
Education structure of R&D staff —— —— —— 
Bachelor degree 16,954  17,502  -3.13% 
Master's degree  8,903  8,602  3.50% 
Master's degree or above 179  161  11.18% 
others 2,236  2,214  0.99% 
Age composition of R&D staff —— —— —— 
Under 30 years old 13,484  14,967  -9.91% 
30-40 years old 13,747  12,655  8.63% 
Over 40 years old 1,041  857  21.47% 
 
R&D investment of the Company  
 2024 2023 Change Percentage 
Amount of R&D expenses (RMB)  11,864,013,392.27 11,392,948,404.47 4.13% 
R&D expenses as a percentage of 
revenue  12.83% 12.75% 0.08% 
Capitalized R&D expenses (RMB) 0.00 0.00 0.00% 
Capitalized R&D expenses as a 
percentage of R&D expenses 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 
Reason and effect of significant change in the composition of the Company's R&D personnel 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
Reason of significant change of total R&D expenses as a percentage of revenue as compared to last year  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
Reason and explanation of its reasonableness of significant change of the capitalized R&D expenses  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable  
 
5. Cash Flow  
Unit: RMB  
Item  2024 2023 (Restated) YoY Change (%) 
Subtotal of cash inflows from 
operating activities  104,471,470,619.92 99,392,083,915.65 5.11% 
Subtotal of cash outflows from 
operating activities 91,207,378,597.19 82,769,874,194.60 10.19% 
Net cash flows from operating 
activities 13,264,092,022.73 16,622,209,721.05 -20.20% 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
130 
Item  2024 2023 (Restated) YoY Change (%) 
Subtotal of cash inflows from 
investing activities 3,173,062,938.17 4,907,512,153.30 -35.34% 
Subtotal of cash outflows from 
investing activities 7,720,603,935.27 8,894,812,143.31 -13.20% 
Net cash flows from investing 
activities -4,547,540,997.10 -3,987,299,990.01 -14.05% 
Subtotal of cash inflows from 
financing activities 7,365,413,894.21 11,109,937,859.61 -33.70% 
Subtotal of cash outflows from 
financing activities 29,444,402,679.84 14,255,369,357.73 106.55% 
Net cash flows from financing 
activities -22,078,988,785.63 -3,145,431,498.12 -601.94% 
Net increase in cash and cash 
equivalents -13,374,924,975.49 9,602,843,248.26 -239.28% 
Explanation of why the related data varied significantly on a YoY basis 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
The main reason for the change in net cash flow from financing activities was the increase in expenditures for 
repaying loans and repurchasing shares this year. 
 
Explanation of reasons leading to the material difference between cash flow from operating activities during the 
reporting period and net profit for the year  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
 
IV. Non-core Business Analysis  
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
V. Analysis of Assets and Liabilities 
1. Material changes of asset items 
 
Unit: RMB 
 
December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 (Restated) 
YoY 
Change 
(%) 
Note of significant change 
Amount 
Percentage 
of total 
assets 
Amount 
Percentage 
of total 
assets 
Cash and bank balances 36,271,488,337.03 27.48% 49,638,158,662.54 35.75% -8.27% 
The reduction in cash and 
cash equivalents is due to 
share repurchases and 
loan repayments 
Accounts receivable 37,910,128,735.42 28.72% 35,816,573,511.44 25.79% 2.93% No significant change 
Contract assets  985,822,785.69 0.75% 1,173,312,415.20 0.84% -0.09% No significant change 
Inventories 19,110,711,958.11 14.48% 19,211,444,296.82 13.84% 0.64% No significant change 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
131 
 
December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 (Restated) 
YoY 
Change 
(%) 
Note of significant change 
Amount 
Percentage 
of total 
assets 
Amount 
Percentage 
of total 
assets 
Long-term equity 
investment 
1,527,223,390.79 1.16% 1,151,104,887.85 0.83% 0.33% 
The increase in 
investment income from 
associates and joint 
ventures, as well as other 
changes in equity 
Fixed assets 15,063,752,296.49 11.41% 11,508,312,342.17 8.29% 3.12% 
Projects such as Xi'an 
Science and Technology 
Park Project were 
transferred to fixed assets  
Construction in process 4,699,473,381.21 3.56% 4,307,651,074.46 3.10% 0.46% No significant change 
Right-of-use assets 530,138,023.79 0.40% 521,061,396.66 0.38% 0.02% No significant change 
Lease liabilities  375,432,749.68 0.28% 344,005,866.13 0.25% 0.03% No significant change 
Contract liabilities 3,353,943,054.24 2.54% 2,977,990,775.40 2.14% 0.40% No significant change 
Short-term borrowings 1,031,895,812.62 0.78% 2,118,952,026.06 1.53% -0.75% The need for working 
capital has decreased, and 
part of the long-term and 
short-term loans has been 
repaid. 
Non-current liabilities 
due within one year 767,030,688.91 0.58% 5,814,660,214.96 4.19% -3.61% 
Long-term borrowings 5,119,185,000.00 3.88% 8,940,122,961.01 6.44% -2.56% 
High proportion of overseas assets 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable   
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
132 
2. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB 
Item Opening balance 
Profit or loss from 
change in fair 
value during the 
period 
Cumulative fair 
value changes 
included in equity 
Provision 
for decline 
in value 
during the 
current 
period 
Purchased 
amount during 
the period 
Sales during 
the period Other changes Closing balance 
Financial assets 
1. Derivative financial assets 37,380.00   26,738,543.93         26,775,923.93 
2. Other non-current financial assets 472,184,937.66 -15,184,854.90    15,000,000.00   472,000,082.76 
3. Receivables for financing 1,594,219,832.62       697,428,411.43 2,291,648,244.05 
Subtotal of financial assets 2,066,442,150.28 11,553,689.03   15,000,000.00  697,428,411.43 2,790,424,250.74 
Derivative financial liabilities 38,079,755.04 36,205,413.40      1,874,341.64 
Whether there were any material changes on the measurement attributes of major assets of the Company during the reporting period:  
□ Yes √ No  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
133 
3. Assets right restrictions as of the end of the reporting period  
Unit: RMB 
VI. Investments 
1. Overview 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable 
 
2. Significant equity investment during the current reporting period 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
Item  Closing book value (RMB) Reasons for being restricted  
Cash and bank balances 218,445,956.74 Various cash deposits and other restricted funds 
Notes receivable 1,274,931,981.36 Endorsed to suppliers, discounted to banks, and pledged for 
the issuance of the banker's acceptance 
Accounts receivable 352,621,694.25 Pledge for long-term debts 
Contract assets 128,422,846.09 Pledge for long-term debts 
Fixed assets 54,026,704.89 Fixed assets leased out under operating leases 
Intangible assets 12,166,524.79 Pledge for long-term debts 
Other non-current assets 1,276,495,354.49 Pledge for long-term debts  
Total  3,317,111,062.61  
Investment in 2024 (RMB)  Investment in 2023 (RMB) YoY (%) 
5,704,894,189.40 4,935,643,770.15 15.59% 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
134 
3. Significant non-equity investment during the current reporting period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB 
Project name 
Invest 
method 
Fixed 
assets 
investme
nt or not 
Project 
industry 
Investment during 
the current reporting 
period 
Cumulative 
amount of 
investment by the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Source of 
funds 
Project 
schedule 
Reasons 
for not 
reaching 
planned 
progress 
and 
expected 
benefits 
Disclosure Date 
(if applicable)  
Disclosure Index (if applicable)  
Wuhan Science and 
Technology Park Project 
Purchase Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
1,657,233,983.77 1,657,649,090.38 
Self-
financing 
87.31% None 
October 23, 
2021 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction Progress of Wuhan 
Science and Technology Park 
Project (No. 2021-065) 
Xi'an Science and 
Technology Park Project 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
271,269,582.66 1,460,580,233.39 
Self-
financing 
100.00% None 
September 23,  
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Xi'an Science and 
Technology Park in Xi'an (No. 
2017-031) 
EZVIZ Intelligent 
Manufacturing Chongqing 
Base Project(Infrastructure 
Part) 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
516,118,684.43 1,144,333,377.23 
Self-
financing/ 
Raise 
funds 
97.80% None 
August 11,  
2021 
Announcement on the Investment 
and Construction of EZVIZ 
Intelligent Manufacturing 
(Chongqing) Base Project by 
Holding Subsidiaries (No. 2021-
052) 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
135 
Project name 
Invest 
method 
Fixed 
assets 
investme
nt or not 
Project 
industry 
Investment during 
the current reporting 
period 
Cumulative 
amount of 
investment by the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Source of 
funds 
Project 
schedule 
Reasons 
for not 
reaching 
planned 
progress 
and 
expected 
benefits 
Disclosure Date 
(if applicable)  
Disclosure Index (if applicable)  
HikRobot Intelligent 
Manufacturing (Tonglu) 
Base Project 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
478,500,853.12 498,800,343.68 
Self-
financing 
46.57% None 
January 19, 
2022 
Announcement on the Investment 
and Construction of HikRobot 
Intelligent Manufacturing (Tonglu) 
Base Project by a Holding 
Subsidiary (No. 2022-009) 
Shijiazhuang Science and 
Technology Park Project 
(Phase II) 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
80,666,336.75 356,913,939.48 
Self-
financing 
100.00% None 
March 22,  
2018 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Shijiazhuang 
Science and Technology Park in 
Shijiazhuang (No. 2018-016) 
HikRobot Product 
Industrialization Base 
Construction Project 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
138,335,361.50 199,752,968.31 
Self-
financing 
19.71% None 
January 19, 
2022 
Announcement on the Investment 
and Construction of HikRobot 
Product Industrialization Base 
Construction Project by Holding 
Subsidiary (No. 2022-007) 
Industrialization Base of 
Infrared Thermal Imaging 
Products 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
95,736,171.04 166,668,535.02 
Self-
financing 
18.47% None 
January 19, 
2022 
Announcement on the Investment 
and Construction of the 
Industrialization Base of Infrared 
Thermal Imaging Products by the 
Holding Subsidiary (No. 2022-
008) 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
136 
Project name 
Invest 
method 
Fixed 
assets 
investme
nt or not 
Project 
industry 
Investment during 
the current reporting 
period 
Cumulative 
amount of 
investment by the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Source of 
funds 
Project 
schedule 
Reasons 
for not 
reaching 
planned 
progress 
and 
expected 
benefits 
Disclosure Date 
(if applicable)  
Disclosure Index (if applicable)  
Wuhan Intelligence Industry 
Park Project (Phase II) 
Self-built Yes 
AIoT 
products 
and 
services 
8,183,414.95 13,854,531.11 
Self-
financing 
0.99% None 
September 23, 
2017 
Announcement on Investment and 
Construction of Wuhan 
Intelligence Industry Park in 
Wuhan (No. 2017-036) 
Total -- -- -- 3,246,044,388.22 5,498,553,018.60 -- -- -- -- -- 
Note: In accordance with the Company's Authorization Management System , new investments on fixed assets of Xi 'an Science and Technology Park Project, 
Shijiazhuang Science and Technology Park Project, and Wuhan Intelligence Industry Park Project were approved by the Strategy Committee of the Board of Directors.  
4. Financial asset investment 
(1) Securities Investments  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There no such case in the reporting period. 
 
(2) Derivatives Investments 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
137 
1) Derivative investments for hedging purposes during the reporting period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: 0,000 RMB  
Type of derivatives 
investment 
Initial investment 
amount  
Opening 
amount 
Gain or loss on 
changes in fair value 
during the reporting 
period  
Changes in 
cumulative fair 
value included in 
equity  
Purchased amount 
during the 
reporting period 
Sold amount 
during the 
reporting period 
Closing 
amount 
Proportion of closing 
investment amount to the 
Company's net assets at the 
end of the reporting period  
Forward foreign exchange 
contract 
176,133.92 176,133.92 6,294.40 - 382,710.45 - 143,549.68 1.78% 
Total 176,133.92 176,133.92 6,294.40 - 382,710.45 - 143,549.68 1.78% 
Accounting policies and specific accounting 
principles for hedging business during the reporting 
period and explanations on whether there have been 
significant changes from the previous reporting 
period  
In accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as "ASBE") No. 22 - Recognition 
and Measurement of Financial Instruments, ASBE No. 37 - Presentation of Financial Instruments and other relevant regulations and guides, 
the Company accounted for and disclosed its forward foreign exchange contracts.  There was no significant changes from the previous 
reporting period. 
Explanations on actual gain or loss during the 
reporting period 
There was a total of RMB6.00 million actual losses during the reporting period. 
Explanations on the effect of hedging business 
The Company's purpose was to avoid and prevent risks of exchange rate or interest rate fluctuations and prohibited any speculative 
actions, further improving the Company's ability to cope with risks of foreign exchange fluctuations, better avoiding and preventing risks 
of foreign exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and enhancing its financial stability. 
Capital source of derivatives investment The Company's own fund. 
Risk analysis and control measures (including but 
not limited to, market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, 
operational risk, legal risk, etc.) of holding 
derivatives during the reporting period 
For details of the risk analysis and control measures, please refer to the Announcement on Carrying out Foreign Exchange Hedging 
Business in 2024 (Announcement No. 2024-015) disclosed by the Company on April 20, 2024. 
Change of market price or fair value of invested The Company recognized and measured the fair value of derivatives in accordance with the Accounting Standards for Business 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
138 
Type of derivatives 
investment 
Initial investment 
amount  
Opening 
amount 
Gain or loss on 
changes in fair value 
during the reporting 
period  
Changes in 
cumulative fair 
value included in 
equity  
Purchased amount 
during the 
reporting period 
Sold amount 
during the 
reporting period 
Closing 
amount 
Proportion of closing 
investment amount to the 
Company's net assets at the 
end of the reporting period  
derivatives during the reporting period; specific 
methods, related assumptions and parameter setting 
of the derivatives' fair value analysis should be 
disclosed 
Enterprises Article 22 - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments. During the reporting period, a total of RMB62.94 million 
of gains from changes in fair value of forward foreign exchange contract were recognized, and the fair value is determined according to 
the exchange rate and interest rate provided by banks and other pricing service institutions, measured and recognized on a monthly basis. 
Prosecution (if applicable) None 
Announcement date for approvals of derivatives 
investment from the Board of Directors (if any) 
April 20, 2024 
Announcement date for approvals of derivatives 
investment from the general meeting of shareholders 
(if any) 
Inapplicable 
2) Derivative investments for speculative purposes during the reporting period 
□Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no derivative investments for speculative purposes during the reporting period. 
5. Use of raised funds  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
During the reporting period, there was no use of raised fund. 
The details of the use of funds raised by EZVIZ Network, the Company's holding subsidiary, was disclosed on April 12, 2025 in Annual Report of Hangzhou EZVIZ 
Network Co., Ltd Section VI (14) - Progress of the Use of Funds Raised on the website of Shanghai Stock Exchange ( www.sse.com.cn).  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
139 
VII. Disposal of Significant Assets and Equity 
1. Disposal of significant assets 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no disposal of significant asset for the Company during the current reporting period.  
2. Sale of significant equity 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
140 
VIII. Analysis of Major Subsidiaries and Holding Companies 
Information about obtaining and disposal of subsidiaries during the reporting period  
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Company name 
Equity acquisition and disposal 
method during the reporting period 
Impact on overall production results 
Hangzhou Furui Technology Ltd. 
Management Entrustment 
Agreement 
Business development 
Hangzhou Hikimaging Electronics Ltd. Cash contribution Business development 
Hangzhou Rayin Detection Tecnology Ltd. Cash contribution Business development 
EZVIZ Vietnam LLC Co., Ltd Cash contribution Expand overseas sales channels 
Hangzhou Micro Sensing Electronics Ltd. Cash contribution Business development 
Guoneng Haikang Yaoshi Technology (Hangzhou) 
Ltd. 
Cash contribution Business development 
EZVIZ Trading FZE. Cash contribution Expand overseas sales channels 
Hikrobot Japan KK Cash contribution Expand overseas sales channels 
IX. Structural Entities Controlled by the Company 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
X. Outlook for the Future Development of the Company 
1. Development Trends for the Industry 
IoT perception, AI, and big data are the core technologies of the AIoT industry and key drivers for digital 
transformation. The development of the AIoT industry will drive various industries, and bring unprecedented 
changes to the entire society. 
The Company has long -standing technical expertise and first -mover advantage in the field of AIoT , and is 
confident to seize the industrial opportunities brought by innovations in large models.  It will collaborate with 
partners to advance the digital transforma tion of various industry scenarios, contributing to the broader societal 
digital transformation. 
2. Development Strategy of the Company 
Hikvision is committed to serving various industries with IoT perception, AI, and big data technologies, leading 
the future of AIoT. Through comprehensive perception technologies, we aim to help people better connect with the 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
141 
world around them. With a wealth of intelligent products, we strive to identify and satisfy diverse demands by 
delivering intelligence at your fingertips. Through innovative AIoT applications, we are dedicated to empowering 
every individual to enjoy a better future by building an intelligent world that is more convenient, efficient and secure. 
3. Key Priorities in 2025 
 (1) Seize the opportunity of the whole society's digital transformation, accelerate the implementation of large-scale 
model technologies, focus on product and technological development, and promote the growth of scenario -based 
digital business. 
 (2) Drive organizational transformation and refined management to achieve long-term profitable growth. 
 (3) Accelerate the Company's internal digital transformation to improve operational efficiency. 
 (4) Continue to deepen marketing strategies and fully advance the digitalization of marketing, sales and service. 
 (5) Enhance manufacturing capabilities to ensure supply security and continuously improve a flexible and efficient 
supply chain. 
 (6) Expand the scale of innovative businesses, strengthen competitiveness, and strive for superior market positions 
in respective sectors. 
XI. Reception of Activities including Research, Communication and Interviews during the 
Report Period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Time of 
reception 
Location of 
reception 
Method of 
reception 
Type of 
reception 
object 
Reception object 
The main content of 
the discussion and 
the information 
provided 
Index of basic situation of the 
research 
April 20, 2024 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Performance 
result 
conference call 
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
Investors 
including Guotai 
Junan Securities-
Liu Xiao 
The Company's 
operations in 2023 
and the first quarter 
of 2024 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record on April 20, 
2024 
May 7, 2024 – 
May 31, 2024 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication 
Institutional 
investors 
Investors 
including Caitong 
Securities 
Management-Wu 
Jiaochen 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From May 7, 
2024 – May 31, 2024 
August 17, 
2024  
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Performance 
result 
conference call 
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
Investors 
including 
Chang'an Fund-
The Company's 
operating conditions 
in the first half of 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record on August 17, 
2024 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
142 
Time of 
reception 
Location of 
reception 
Method of 
reception 
Type of 
reception 
object 
Reception object 
The main content of 
the discussion and 
the information 
provided 
Index of basic situation of the 
research 
Company Xu Xiaoyong 2024 
October 26, 
2024 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company 
Performance 
result 
conference call 
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
Investors 
including 
Northeast 
Securities Co., 
Ltd.-Huang Jing 
The Company's 
operations in the 
third quarter of 2024 
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record on October 
26, 2024 
Octorber 29, 
2024 – 
December 6, 
2024 
Headquarters 
meeting room 
of the 
Company  
Site Research 
and telephone 
communication  
Institutional 
investors; 
individuals 
Investors 
including Fuhua 
Investment Trust-
Gong Xiaowei 
The Company's 
operating conditions 
and future prospects  
CNINF, Investor Relations 
Activity Record: From 
Octorber 29, 2024 –
December 6, 2024 
 
XII. The Formulation and Implementation of Market Value Management Systems and 
Valuation Enhancement Plans 
Whether or not the Company has established the market value management system 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable  
On April 17, 2025, the Company's 6th Board of Directors convened its 5th meeting and reviewed and approved the 
Market Value Management System. The system aims to legally and compliantly utilize various methods to enhance 
its investment value, thereby ensuring that the Company's investment value reasonably reflects its quality on the 
basis of continuous improvement of the Company's operational standards and quality.  
 
Whether or not the Company has disclosed valuation enhancement plans 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
143 
Section IV Corporate Governance 
I. Basic Situation of Corporate Governance 
Since the inception of the Company, we have been strictly following relevant laws and regulations such as the 
Company Law, Securities Law, Code of Corporate Governance of Listed Companies, Rules Governing the Listing 
of Shares on Shenzhen Stock Exchange, and Shenzhen Stock Exchange Listed Companies Self -Regulatory 
Supervision Guidelines No. 1 - Standardized Operation of Main Board Listed Companies as well as the requirements 
of the regulations and regulatory documents of the regulatory authoritie s and continuously improving the "3+1" 
corporate governance structure comprising shareholders' meeting, the Board of Directors, the Board of Supervisors, 
and the management taking into consideration the actual situation of the Company, and strictly follow the principle 
of disclosing information in a true, accurate, complete, timely and impartial manner; we have also established and 
improved internal management and control system, promoted the standardized operation of the Company and 
ensured the legitimate rights and interests of the Company and investors. During the reporting period, the basic 
details of corporate governance is as follows: 
1. Shareholders and shareholders' meeting 
All shareholders of the Company have the equal status and full rights, especi ally small and medium 
shareholders. During the reporting period, the Company held a total of 3 general meetings of shareholders, which 
was convened by the Company's Board of Directors, and witnessed by lawyers on -site with legal opinions issued. 
Proposals of general meetings of shareholders were reviewed in compliance with legal procedures to ensure that all 
shareholders have the right to know, participate, and vote on major issues of the Company and to fully exercise their 
legal rights. 
2. The controlling shareholders and listed company 
The Company 's controlling shareholders had no improper conduct and have never directly or indirectly 
interfered with the Company's decision-making and operating activities overriding shareholders' meeting. There are 
no such cases that controlling shareholders illegally occupy the Company's funds or the Company illegally provides 
guarantees for controlling shareholders. The Company, with its own complete business system and management 
capabilities, has been independent of controlling shareholders in terms of business, personnel, assets, organizations, 
and finances. The Company's Board of Directors, Board of Supervisors and internal institutions has been operating 
separately and major company decisions are made and implemented by the Company. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
144 
3. Directors and the Board of Directors 
The Company's Board of Directors, operating in a normalized way, has exercised its authority invested by the 
Articles of Association  and relevant laws and regulations, and implemented the relevant deci sions of the 
shareholders' meeting. The number and composition of the Company's Board of Directors comply with the 
requirements of laws and regulations. There are four committees for strategy, audit, nomination, remuneration and 
appraisal, and risk and com pliance under it. Each committee has a clear division of labor, clear powers and 
responsibilities, and effective operation, ensuring the Board's professionalization and efficiency of deliberation and 
decision-making. All directors of the Company have perfo rmed their duties with integrity, loyalty, diligence, 
professionalism and due diligence, and earnestly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of the Company and 
shareholders with a view to the interests of the Company and shareholders. Complying with the relevant provisions 
of the Measures for the Administration of Independent Directors of Listed Companies regarding independence, the 
independent directors of the Company fulfilled their duties independently and objectively, provided guidance and 
advice, and played their due role in improving the company's supervisory mechanisms. They ensured the interests 
of the Company and its shareholders, especially the shareholders of public shares, were safeguarded, promoted the 
improvement of the Board's decision-making level, and ensured the standardized operation of the Company. 
4. Supervisors and Board of Supervisors 
The Company's Board of Supervisors, operating in a normalized way, has exercised its authority invested by 
the Articles of Association and relevant laws and regulations The number and composition of the Company's Board 
of Supervisors meet the requirements of laws and regulations; the Company's supervisors have diligently performed 
their duties and obligations, and carried out supervision and inspection functions being responsible to shareholders, 
and supervised the Company's financial status, operating conditions and related transactions, and the performance 
of duties by directors and senior managers to fully protect the legal rights and interests of the Company and all 
shareholders. 
5. Performance appraisal and incentive and restraint mechanism 
The Company  has established a complete performance appraisal system and remuneration system. The 
appointment procedures for senior management personnel are open and transparent, and comply with relevant laws 
and regulations. The remuneration and appraisal committee under the Company's Board of Directors is responsible 
for performance appraisal of the Company's senior management at the end of the year to determine their 
remuneration. To further set up and improve the Company 's incentive mechanism and strengthen the con cept of 
sustainable development of both the Company and employees, the Company has adopted the plan of core staff's co-
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
145 
investment into innovation business to achieve its development strategy and business objectives, and realize 
sustainable health development.  
6. Information disclosure and transparency 
The Company has strictly followed the relevant laws and regulations and the  Information Disclosure 
Management System to disclose relevant information truthfully, accurately, completely, timely and impartially, and 
thoroughly implemented the Information Insider Management System  to register insiders and file to further 
standardize inside information management and to ens ure that all shareholders and other stakeholders of the 
Company have equal access to company information. The Company's information disclosure has been recognized 
by the regulatory authorities: the Company has been rated as Level A by the Shenzhen Stock Ex change for 1 4 
consecutive years in the main board listed company information disclosure assessment. 
7. Continue to improve the internal management system 
In accordance with relevant laws and regulations such as the Company Law and Securities Law, as well as the 
rules and normative documents from regulatory authorities, and in accordance with the requirements of the 
Company's Articles of Association, the Company has established a set of internal management systems including 
Deliberation Regulation for the shareholders' meeting, board of directors, and board of supervisors, as well as  
Working Rules of specific committees of the board of directo rs. These systems also include the Code of Conduct 
for Independent D irectors, Rules for the General Manager 's Work, Authorization Management S ystem, Related 
Party T ransaction Management System , External Guarantee Management S ystem, and Investor Relations 
Management System. The Company continually strengthens internal management, refines the governance structure, 
enhances the level of standard operations, and safeguards the legitimate rights and interests of the Company and its 
shareholders. 
8. Investor relations activities 
The Company has proactively organized result briefing conferences and investor research ac tivities after the 
disclosure of regular reports to actively listen to investors ' opinions and suggestions, and released the Investor 
Relations Activity Record  after the event to ensure fair access to company information by all investors. In daily 
work, the Company has kept in touch with investors through multiple channels such as telephone, e -mail, and 
irm.cninfo.com.cn to effectively interact and communicate with investors. The Company has been honored with the 
"China Listed Company Investor Relations Management Shareholder Returning Tianma Award" by the Securities 
Times, the "Best Board of Directors of Listed Companies in 2024" by the Economic Observer, and the "Best IR 
Team with the Best Institutional Coverage in 2023" by Finenter, among other accolades. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
146 
Any significant incompliance for the laws, administrative regulations and the relevant regulatory documents 
issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission in respect of the Company's corporate governance: 
□ Yes √ No 
There is no significant incompliance for the laws, administrative regulations and the relevant regulatory 
documents issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission in respect of the Company's corporate governance. 
 
II. Company 's Independence in Assets, Personnel, Finances, Organizations and Businesses 
from Controlling Shareholders and Actual Controller  
The Company is completely independent in business, personnel, assets, organizations, and finances from its 
shareholders. The Company has established a sound internal control system, being capa ble of operating 
independently with its complete and independent business. 
1. Business independence: The Company has own production, purchases and sales systems, which are 
completely independent from controlling shareholders. Therefore, there is no competi tion among the Company, 
controlling shareholders, and related parties. 
2. Personnel independence: The Company has independent personnel. The management has set up various 
independent departments, including R&D, production, administration, finance and opera tion management 
divisions, etc., and established complete management methods for labor, personnel, and salary management. 
Personnel of the Company is independent from controlling shareholders, e.g. the chairman is elected through the 
general meetings of th e Board. In addition, the general manager, senior deputy general managers, CFO, the 
secretary of the Board, and other senior management personnel of the Company are work full-time in the Company 
and receive remuneration, and do not receive remuneration in the controlling shareholders, nor do they hold any 
administrative positions other than directors and supervisors in the controlling shareholders. Directors, supervisors, 
and senior management personnel are appointed through legal procedures strictly in acc ordance with relevant 
regulations stipulated in Company Law and Articles of Association. There is no controlling shareholder illegal 
intervention in the Company's personnel decisions in general meetings of the Board or shareholders. 
3. Asset Completeness: The property rights of assets are explicitly between the Company and the controlling 
shareholders, and no assets, funds, or other resources owned by the Company are illegally and irregularly occupied 
or controlled by the controlling shareholders. Assets of the Company are integrated, including complete property 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
147 
rights of fixed assets for production, supporting assets for production, and intangible assets of patents, etc. The 
Company has the full control and ownership of all assets.    
4. Independence in organizations: The Company's Board of Directors, Board of Supervisor, management 
and other internal organizations operate independently, and each functional department is independent from 
controlling shareholders in duty and personnel. There is no superior -subordinate relation between functional 
departments of controlling shareholders and those of the Company, which would have an impact on the Company's 
independent operations.  
5. Financial Independence: The Company has established an independent financial department, as well as a 
sound and independent financial and accounting system. The Company makes financial decisions independently. 
There is a standardized financial accounting system and a financial management system for the Company 's 
branches and subsidiar ies, and there is no controlling shareholder intervention in the Company 's financial and 
accounting activities. The Company has maintained accounts with banks independently of and do not share any 
bank account with our Controlling Shareholders. The Company  has undertaken independent tax registration in 
accordance with applicable laws, and paid tax independently. 
III. Horizontal Competition 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
IV. Annual General Meeting and Extraordinary General Meetings Convened during the 
Reporting Period 
1. General Meetings Convened during the Reporting Period 
Meeting Nature 
Proportion 
of 
participating 
investors  
Convened Date Disclosure Date Resolution of the Meeting  
2023 Annual General Meeting 
Annual General 
Meeting 
65.7518% May 10, 2024  May 11, 2024  
21 proposals including the 
2023 Annual Report and Its 
Summary were 
reviewed,voted and 
approved. For details, 
please refer to the 
Company's announcement: 
No. 2024-002. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
148 
2024 First Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
62.3135% August 2, 2024 August 3, 2024 
6 proposals including the 
Resolution on the Election 
of Non-Independent 
Directors for the 6th Board 
of Directors were 
reviewed,voted and 
approved. For details, 
please refer to the 
Company's announcement: 
No. 2024-041. 
2024 Second Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
Extraordinary 
General Meeting 
68.4275 % 
December 25, 
2024 
December 26, 2024 
The proposal on The 
Company's Share 
Repurchase Plan" was 
reviewed,voted and 
approved item by item. For 
details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: 
No. 2024-068. 
2. Extraordinary General Meetings Convened at the Request of Preferred Shareholders with Resumed 
Voting Rights:  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
149 
V. Information about Directors, Supervisors, Senior Management  
1. Basic Situation 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure 
status 
Commencement 
of term of office  
Termination 
of term of 
office 
Shares held at the 
beginning of the 
Period (Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during 
the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares decreased 
during the Period 
(Shares) 
Other 
increase or 
decrease of 
shares 
(Share) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for 
increase or 
decrease of shares 
Hu 
Yangzhong Male 60 
Chairman of 
the Board of 
Directors  
Incumbent August 2, 2024 -- 
155,636,477 360,000  0  0 155,996,477 
Increase of shares 
during the Period Director, 
General 
Manager 
(CEO) 
Term 
Expired 
December 28, 
2001 
August 2, 
2024 
Fu Baijun Male 53 Director  Incumbent  August 2, 2024 -- 0 0  0  0  0  -- 
Xu Lixing Male 54 Director Incumbent  August 2, 2024 -- 0 0  0  0  0  -- 
Xu Peng Male 49 
Director, 
General 
Manager 
(CEO) 
Incumbent August 2, 2024 -- 
108,622 0  0  -70,000 38,622 
The repurchase 
and cancellation 
of the Company's 
2021 restricted 
shares 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Term 
Expired 
March 12,  
2021 
August 2, 
2024 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
150 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure 
status 
Commencement 
of term of office  
Termination 
of term of 
office 
Shares held at the 
beginning of the 
Period (Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during 
the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares decreased 
during the Period 
(Shares) 
Other 
increase or 
decrease of 
shares 
(Share) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for 
increase or 
decrease of shares 
Wang 
Qiuchao Male 74 Director Incumbent March 5, 2021 -- 35,000 0 0 0  35,000  -- 
Wu 
Xiaobo Male 65 Independent 
Director Incumbent March 5, 2021 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Hu Ruimin Male 61 Independent 
Director Incumbent March 5, 2021 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Lv 
Changjian
g 
Male 60 Independent 
Director Incumbent August 2, 2024 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Tan 
Xiaofen Male 47 Independent 
Director Incumbent August 2, 2024 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Lu 
Jianzhong Male 71 
Chairman of 
the Board of 
Supervisors 
Incumbent March 5, 2021 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Huang 
Xing Female 41 Supervisor Incumbent August 2, 2024 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Pan Jia Male 45 Employee 
Supervisor Incumbent August 2, 2024 -- 54,625 0  0  0  54,625 -- 
He Hongli Female 52 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Incumbent 
December 18,  
2005 
-- 331,500 0  0  0  331,500  -- 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
151 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure 
status 
Commencement 
of term of office  
Termination 
of term of 
office 
Shares held at the 
beginning of the 
Period (Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during 
the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares decreased 
during the Period 
(Shares) 
Other 
increase or 
decrease of 
shares 
(Share) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for 
increase or 
decrease of shares 
Pu 
Shiliang Male 48 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Incumbent March 21, 2018 -- 355,900 0 0 -90,000  265,900  
The repurchase 
and cancellation 
of the Company's 
2021 restricted 
shares 
Guo 
Xudong Male 53 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Incumbent 
March 12,  
2021 
-- 21,140 30,000  0  0 51,140 
Increase of shares 
during the Period 
Xu Ximing Male 52 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Incumbent 
October 11,  
2016 
-- 227,900 10,000 0  -90,000 147,900  
Increase of shares 
during the Period 
and the 
repurchase and 
cancellation of 
the Company's 
2021 restricted 
shares 
Chen 
Junke Male 54 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Incumbent March 21, 2018 -- 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Huang 
Fanghong Female 43 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Incumbent April 8, 2016 -- 449,500 30,000 0  -80,000 399,500  
Increase of shares 
during the Period 
and the 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
152 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure 
status 
Commencement 
of term of office  
Termination 
of term of 
office 
Shares held at the 
beginning of the 
Period (Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during 
the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares decreased 
during the Period 
(Shares) 
Other 
increase or 
decrease of 
shares 
(Share) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for 
increase or 
decrease of shares 
Manager repurchase and 
cancellation of 
the Company's 
2021 restricted 
shares 
Jin Yan Female 46 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager, 
Person in 
Charge of 
Finance 
Incumbent July 22, 2015 -- 331,000 0 0  -80,000  251,000  
The repurchase 
and cancellation 
of the Company's 
2021 restricted 
shares 
Cai 
Changyang Male 54 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Incumbent April 8, 2016 -- 109,500 0 0 0  109,500  -- 
Feng Wei Male 46 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager, 
Board 
Secretary  
Incumbent 
October 25, 
2024 
-- 0 0 0 0  0 -- 
Chen 
Zongnian Male 60 
Chairman of 
the Board of 
Directors 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
June 19, 2008 
August 2, 
2024 
0 0 0 0  0  -- 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
153 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure 
status 
Commencement 
of term of office  
Termination 
of term of 
office 
Shares held at the 
beginning of the 
Period (Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during 
the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares decreased 
during the Period 
(Shares) 
Other 
increase or 
decrease of 
shares 
(Share) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for 
increase or 
decrease of shares 
Qu Liyang Male 61 Director 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 7, 2018 
August 2, 
2024 
15,750 0 0 0  15,750  -- 
Wu Weiqi Male 61 
Director, 
Standing 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 1, 2003 
August 2, 
2024 
8,685,789 0  0  0 8,685,789 -- 
Li Shuhua Male 54 Independent 
Director 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 5, 2021 
August 2, 
2024 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Guan 
Qingyou Male 48 Independent 
Director 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 5, 2021 
August 2, 
2024 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Hong 
Tianfeng Male 59 
Chairman of 
the Board of 
Supervisors 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 5, 2021 
August 2, 
2024 0 0 0 0  0  -- 
Xu Lirong Male 62 Supervisor 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 21, 2018 
August 2, 
2024 303,000 0 0 0  303,000  -- 
Jin Duo Male 60 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Term 
Expired and 
Resigned 
March 10, 2015 
August 2, 
2024 
109,500 0 0 0  109,500  -- 
Bi Huijuan Female 54 
Senior 
Deputy 
General 
Manager 
Resigned 
October 11,  
2016 
August 2, 
2024 
236,100 0 0  236,100  -- 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
154 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure 
status 
Commencement 
of term of office  
Termination 
of term of 
office 
Shares held at the 
beginning of the 
Period (Shares) 
Shares 
increased 
during 
the 
Period 
(shares) 
Shares decreased 
during the Period 
(Shares) 
Other 
increase or 
decrease of 
shares 
(Share) 
Shares held at 
the end of the 
Period (Shares) 
Reasons for 
increase or 
decrease of shares 
Total -- -- -- -- -- -- 167,011,303 430,000 0 -410,000 167,031,303 -- 
Note: 1. The number of shares held at the beginning of the period, shares increased during the period, shares decreased during the period, other increase or decrease 
of shares, and shares held at the end of the period for directors, supervisors, and senior management personnel above are all shares directly held by them accordingly, 
including restricted shares. 
2. On August 2, 2024, Hu Yangzhong was elected as the Company's chairman; Fu Bojun, Xu Lixing, and Xu Peng were elected as directors; Lv Changjiang and Tan 
Xiaofen were elected as independent directors; and Huang Xing and Pan Jia were elected as supervisors. On October 25, 2024, Feng Wei was appointed as a senior 
executive of the Company. 
On August 2, 2024, Chen Zongnian, Qu Liyang, and Wu Weiqi completed their terms and left from their positions as directors of the Company. Li Shuhua and Guan 
Qingyou completed their terms and left from their positions as independent directors of the Company. Hong Tianfeng and Xu Lirong completed their terms and left 
from their positions as supervisors of the Company. Wu Weiqi and Jin Duo completed their terms and left from their positions as senior management of the Company. 
On October 25, 2024, Bi Huijuan left from her position as senior management of the Company. 
3. During the reporting period, the initial number of shares held by newly appointed Directors, Supervisors, and Senior Management is the number of shares held as 
of their appointment date. 
 
  
Any resignation of directors or supervisors and dismissals of senior management personnel during their term of office during the reporting period. 
√Yes □No 
On October 25, 2024, Ms. Bi Huijuan, a senior management member of the Company, applied to resign from her position as senior deputy general manager of the 
Company for personal reasons. For further details, please refer to the Company's announcement Announcement on the Resignation of a Senior Management Member, 
published on October 26, 2024, on the cninfo website (www.cninfo.com.cn).
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
155 
 
Change of directors, supervisors and senior management personnel 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
Name Title Type Date Reason 
Hu Yangzhong Chairman 
Appointment and 
Removal 
August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Fu Baijun Director Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Xu Lixing Director Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Xu Peng Director, CEO 
Appointment and 
Removal 
August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Lv Changjiang Independent Director Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Tan Xiaofen Independent Director Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Lu Jianzhong Supervisor Chairman Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Huang Xing Supervisor Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Pan Jia Employee Supervisor Election August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Feng Wei 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Appointment October 25, 2024 Appointment 
Chen Zongnian Chairman Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Qu Liyang Director Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Wu Weiqi 
Director, 
Standing Deputy 
General Manager 
Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Li Shuhua Independent Director Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Guan Qingyou Independent Director Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Hong Tianfeng Supervisor Chairman Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Xu Lirong Employee Supervisor Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Jin Duo 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Expiration of term August 2, 2024 Rotation 
Bi Huijuan 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
Resignation October 25, 2024 Personal Reason 
 
2. Positions and Incumbency 
1) Directors 
Mr. Hu Yangzhong (胡扬忠): Born in 1965, master of engineering, a senior research engineer. He served as an  
engineer of 52nd Research Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (hereinafter referred to as 
"52nd Research Institute") from June 1989 to December 2001. From December 2013 to April 2022, he served as a 
director of China Electronics Technology HIK Group Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "CETHIK"). From December 
2001 to August 2024, he served as a director and the general manager of the Company. Hu currently serves as the  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
156 
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
Mr. Fu Bajun (傅柏军): Born in 1972, bachelor of economics, a senior accountant. He successively held positions 
such as senior deputy general manager of Hikvision and assistant general manager of China Electronics Technology 
HIK Group Co., Ltd. He is currently a director of Hikvision. 
Mr. Xu Lixing (徐立兴): Born in 1971, bachelor of economics, a senior accountant. He has successively served as 
the chief accountant of the 55th Research Institute of China Electronics Technology Group Ltd., China Electronics 
National Basic Southern Group Co., Ltd., the 14th Research Institute of China Electronics Technology Group Ltd., 
and China Electronics Guo Rui Group Co., Ltd. He is currently the chief accountant of China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd. and a director of Hikvision. 
Mr. Xu Peng (徐鹏): Born in 1976, bachelor of engineering, a senior engineer. From 1998 to 2004, he successively 
held positions such as assistant engineer and engineer at the 52nd Research Institute of China Electronics Technology 
Group Ltd. He joined Hikvision in 2004 and successively served as a camera R&D manager, R&D director, product 
director, general manager of the front-end product business department, deputy general manager, and senior deputy 
general manager of Hikvision. He is currently a director and general manager of Hikvision. 
Mr. Wang Qiuchao ( 王秋潮): Born in 1951, m aster of Law. He successively served as the general director of 
Zhejiang Tiance Law Firm, president of Lawyers Association of Zhejiang, and vice president of the Zhejiang Law 
Society. He is currently an Honorary Partner of Zhejiang Tiance Law Firm, an arbitrator of the China International 
Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission, an arbitrator of the Shanghai International Arbitration Center, an 
arbitrator of the Shenzhen International Arbitration Center, and a director of Hikvision. 
Mr. Wu Xiaobo ( 吴晓波): Born in 1960, a PhD of business administration, Professor, Ph.D. Tutor. In February 
1982, he joined the Energy Saving Office of the Ministry of  Forestry, Zhejiang Energy Conservation Technology 
Service Center, and joined the School of Management of Zhejiang University in July 1992, successively served as 
an executive vice dean and dean. He is currently the Director of the Department of Social Sci ences of Zhejiang 
University, the director of the National Philosophy and Social Science Innovation Base - Research on Innovation 
Management and Sustainable Competitiveness of Zhejiang University, the Chinese director of the Joint Research 
Center for Global Manufacturing and Innovation Management of Zhejiang University -Cambridge University, the 
co-director of the Ruihua Institute of Innovation Management, an independent director of UCloud Technology Co., 
Ltd., and an independent director of the Company. 
Mr. Hu Ruimin ( 胡瑞敏): Born in 1964, a PhD in engineering, second-level professor, doctoral tutor, Luojia 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
157 
distinguished scholar, recipient of Special Government Grants from the State Council, Senior Member of IEEE 
(Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engine ers), fellow of China Institute of Communications, distinguished 
member of China Computer Federation. He has successively served as vice chairman of the Academic Committee 
of Wuhan University, director of the National Multimedia Software Engineering Techno logy Research Center, 
director of Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of Multimedia Network Communication Engineering, First Executive 
Dean of National Cyber Security College and Dean of School of Computer Science of Wuhan University. From 
December 2007 to December 2013, he served as a n independent director of Wuhan Tienyu Information Industry 
Co., Ltd. From January 2010 to January 2016, he served as the first dean of Hikvision Research Institute. He is 
currently a professor of Wuhan University and an independent director of the Company. 
Mr. Lv Changjiang (吕长江): Born in 1965, a PhD in Economics, a national high-level talent, and a recipient of 
the special government allowance of the State Council. He has successively served as an independent director of 
East Money Information Co., Ltd., China Tianying Inc., and Montage Technology Co., Ltd. He is currently the 
deputy dean of the School of Management, a professor and doctoral supervisor of accounting at Fudan University, 
the co -editor-in-chief of "China Accounti ng Review" and "China Management Accounting", an independent 
director of Youngor Group Co., Ltd., and an independent director of Hikvision. 
Mr. Tan Xiaofen (谭小芬): Born in 1978, holding Bachelor and Master degree from the School of Economics and 
Business Ad ministration at Beijing Normal University, and a Doctorate from the Chinese Academy of Social 
Sciences. His research areas include finance, macroeconomics, and international economics. He is a doctoral 
supervisor, a visiting scholar at Columbia University in the United States, the chief expert of major projects of the 
National Social Science Fund, the chief expert of key projects of the National Natural Science Fund, and the chief 
expert of major projects of the Ministry of Education's Philosophy and Social  Science Late-stage Funding. He 
successively served as a professor and deputy dean of the School of Finance, director of the Personnel Department, 
director of the Talent Work Office, minister of the Teacher Work Department, director of the Development Planning 
Department, and director of the Discipline Construction Office at Central University of Finance and Economics. He 
is currently a professor of finance at the School of Economics and Management at Beihang University, an 
outstanding young scholar of Blue sky Plan, a Changjiang Young Scholar of the Ministry of Education, an 
independent director of Minsheng Royal Fund Management Co.,Ltd., and Sunshine Life Insurance Co., Ltd., and 
an independent director of Hikvision. 
2) Supervisors 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
158 
Mr. Lu Jianzhong (陆建忠): Born in 1954, holds bachelor degree in economics and CPA certificate. Lu served as 
a lecturer and an associate professor of finance and accounting department at Shanghai Maritime University from 
September 1986 to September 1997; he was a CPA and a partner o f the auditing department of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, from October 1997 to June 2012; he was a chartered accountant of Shanghai De 'an 
Certified Public Accountants LLP from July 2012 to July 2013; he was a chartered accountant of the Shanghai 
branch of PKF Daxin Certified Public Accountants LLP, from August 2013 to July 2014 ;he was a partner and a 
chartered accountant and a partner of Zhongxinghua Certificated Public Accountants LLP  from August 2014 to 
January 2016; he was a chartered accountant of Dahua Certificated Public Accountants LLP from January 2016 to 
December 2021. Lu currently serves as a chartered accountant of Zhongxinghua Certificated Public Accountants 
LLP Shanghai Branch, and the chairman of the Board of Supervisors of the Company.  
Ms. Huang Xing ( 黄星): Born in 1984, bachelor of management, an accountant. She has served as the deputy 
director (in charge of work) and director of the Audit Department, and deputy minister of the supervision and audit 
department at China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd. She is currently the deputy minister (in charge 
of work) of the supervision and audit department, director of the Supervision Department, and director of the audit 
department of China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd., and a supervisor of Hikvision.  
Mr. Pan Jia (潘佳): Born in 1980, master of engineering. From July 2006 to March 2013, he served as a customer 
manager in the Semiconductor Division of Texas Instruments Semiconductor Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. He 
joined Hikvision in April 2013 and held positions such as manager of the Procure ment Management Department, 
director of the Procurement Management Department, and director of the Planning Department of the Supply Chain 
Center. He currently serves as a staff representative supervisor of the Company and General Manager of the 
Hangzhou Production Base of the Supply Chain Center. 
3) Senior Management Personnel 
Mr. Xu Peng (徐鹏): Please refer to his profile in preceding part of the report. 
Ms. He Hongli (何虹丽): Born in 1973, master of business administration. She joined Hikvision in December 2001 
and served as an assistant to the general manager and a deputy general manager of the Company. Ms. He currently 
serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
Mr. Pu Shiliang (浦世亮): Born in 1977, doctor of engineering, a senior engineer. He joined Hikvision in April 
2006 and held various positions in the Company, including R&D engineer, R&D manager, R&D director, , chief 
expert, and dean of the R&D institute. He currently serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
159 
Mr. Guo Xudong ( 郭旭东 ): Born in 1972, bachelor of engineering. In July 2002, he joined Hikvision, and 
successively served as general manager of Shenzhen Branch, marketing director of domestic marketing center and 
deputy general manager of domestic marketing center. He is currently the senior deputy general manager of the 
Company. 
Mr. Xu Ximing ( 徐习明): Born in 1973, bachelor of engineering. From July 1996 to September 2016, he held 
various positions in IBM, inclu ding engineer, department manager, director, partner of consulting service, senior 
partner of consulting service, and a vice president. He joined Hikvision in September 2016, and served as a deputy 
general manager of the Company. Mr. Xu currently serves as a senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
Mr. Chen Junke (陈军科): Born in 1971, bachelor of engineering, a senior engineer. Chen held various positions 
in the 52 nd Research Institute from 1994 to 2001, including assistant engineer, engineer and senior  engineer. He 
joined the Company in 2001 and served as the technology director of the Digital Video Recorder (DVR) Division 
of the Technology Management Center, general manager of supply chain management center, employee 
representative supervisor. Chen currently serves as senior deputy general manager of the Company. 
Ms. Huang Fanghong (黄方红): Born in 1982, bachelor of law. She joined Hikvision in June 2009 and held various 
positions at the Company including legal department manager, internal audit manager, internal control director, and 
a deputy general manager and the board secretary. Ms. Huang currently serves as a senior deputy general manager. 
Ms. Jin Yan (金艳): Born in 1979, master of management, an accountant. She joined Hikvision in 2004 and held 
various positions at the Company, including financial manager, the general manager of the Financial Management 
Center, and a deputy general manager and the person in charge of finance and accounting. Ms. Jin currently serves 
as a senior deputy general manager and the person in charge of finance and accounting of the Company. 
Mr. Cai Changyang ( 蔡昶阳): Born in 1971, bachelor of engineering. He joined Hikvision in 2004, and held 
various positions of the Company, including general manager of Beijing branch, director for government and 
enterprise corporation department, director of investment department, director of strategy and marketing department, 
and a deputy general manager of the Company. Mr. Cai currently serves as senior deputy general manager of the 
Company. 
Mr. Feng Wei ( 奉玮): Born in 1979, master of engineering. From January 2005 to June 2010, he served as an 
international management trainee, supply chain quality engineer, and market information manager at the German 
ZF Group. From July 2010 to November 2013, he was an industry analyst at China Everbright Securities Co., Ltd. 
From November 2013 to October 2019, he served as the managing director of the research division, and the chief 
analyst for the automotive and auto parts industry at China International Capital Corporation Limited (CICC). From 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
160 
November 2019 to July 2024, he was the Chief Financial Officer of NIO Group. I n October 2024, he joined 
Hikvision and is currently the Company's senior deputy general manager and Board secretary.  
 
Position held in shareholders' entities 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Name Shareholder's entity Position in shareholders' 
entities 
Commencement 
of the term  
Termination of the 
term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the 
shareholders' entity 
Chen 
Zongnian 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Chairman of the Board of 
Directors November 2013  Y 
Fu Baijun 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Deputy Secretary of the 
Committee February 2023  Y 
Xu Lixing 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Chief Accountant February 2023  Y 
Huang Xing 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. 
Deputy Minister (in charge 
of work) of the Supervision 
and Audit Department 
December 2023  Y 
Xu Lirong China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. Supervisor December 2013  N 
 
Positions held in other entities 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable  
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination of 
the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Xu Lixing China Electronics Technology 
Financial Co., Ltd. Supervisor April 2022  N 
Xu Lixing Phoenix Optics Ltd. Director December 2023  N 
Xu Lixing Zhejiang Chituo Technology 
Co., Ltd. Director January 2021  N 
Xu Peng Maxiot Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. Director December 2021  N 
Wang Qiuchao Zhejiang T&C Law Firm Partner June 1986  Y 
Wang Qiuchao 
Shanghai Kehui Value 
Investment Management Ltd. 
Director July 2009  N 
Wang Qiuchao 
Yalongxing Investment 
Development Ltd. 
Director February 2012 January 2024 N 
Wu Xiaobo 
Shanghai Yirui Management 
Consultants Ltd. 
Director April 2004 April 2024 N 
Wu Xiaobo 
Hangzhou Co-Rui Enterprise 
Management Consulting Ltd. 
Director April 2011  N 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
161 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination of 
the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Wu Xiaobo 
Ningbo Industrial Internet 
Research Institute Ltd. 
Director May 2018  Y 
Wu Xiaobo Eddy Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
August 2018 
November 
2024 
Y 
Wu Xiaobo 
Zhongliang Holdings Group 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
June 2019  Y 
Wu Xiaobo 
Ruihua Innovation 
Management Research 
Institute (Hangzhou) Ltd. 
Director November 2019  N 
Wu Xiaobo UCloud Technology Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
June 2020  Y 
Wu Xiaobo 
Zhongtian Holding Group 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
July 2021  Y 
Lv Changjiang 
Montage Technology Group 
Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
October 2018 June 2024 Y 
Lv Changjiang Youngor Fashion Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
May 2020  Y 
Tan Xiaofen 
China Minsheng Bank Fund 
Management Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
January 2023  Y 
Tan Xiaofen 
Yangguang Life Insurance 
Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
March 2024  Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
Huatai Baoxing Fund 
Management Co., Ltd. 
Director July 2016  Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
COSCO SHIPPING 
Development Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
January 2018 July 2024 Y 
Lu Jianzhong  
Shanghai Xinnanyang Only 
Education & Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director January 2019 January 2025 Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
Shanghai Instrumentation & 
Electrical (Group) Co., Ltd. 
Director December 2019  N 
Lu Jianzhong 
Shanghai Vico Precision 
Mold & Plastics Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
May 2021 June 2024 Y 
Lu Jianzhong 
BOMESC Offshore 
Engineering Company 
Limited 
Independent 
Director December 2021  Y 
Lu Jianzhong Zhongxinghua Certified Certified Public January 2022  N 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
162 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination of 
the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Public Accountants (Special 
General Partnership) 
Shanghai Branch 
Accountant 
Lu Jianzhong Bank of Tianjin Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
August 2022  Y 
Huang Xing 
Zhejiang Haikang Science & 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Supervisor December 2019  N 
Huang Xing 
Beijing Hehai Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
Supervisor April 2020  N 
Huang Xing 
Zhejiang Yibo High-Tech 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Supervisor January 2023  N 
Huang Xing 
Zhejiang Chituo Technology 
Co., Ltd. 
Supervisor January 2024  N 
Huang Xing 
Hangzhou Hongyan Electric 
Co., Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of 
Supervisors 
June 2024  N 
Chen Zongnian 
Zhejiang AIoT Technology 
Magazine 
Legal 
Representative 
May 2009  N 
Chen Zongnian Phoenix Optics Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
December 2019  N 
Wu Weiqi 
Hangzhou Pukang Equity 
Investment Partnership 
(Limited Partnership) 
Executive Partner April 2011  N 
Li Shuhua 
Xi'an ShaanGu Power Co., 
Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
May 2018 July 2024 Y 
Li Shuhua 
Luoyang Yuchuan Yuye 
Group Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
August 2018 June 2024 Y 
Li Shuhua 
Changzhou Guangyang 
Holdings Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
and CEO 
December 2022  N 
Li Shuhua Changzhou NRB Co., Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
October 2019  Y 
Li Shuhua Weihai Shiyi Electronics Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
December 2020  N 
Li Shuhua Juzhengyuan Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
December 2020  Y 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
163 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination of 
the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Li Shuhua 
CIMC-TianDa Holdings 
Company Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
May 2021  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Guangdong Shengyi 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
October 2021 June 2024 Y 
Li Shuhua 
TianJin TianHai Precision 
Forging Co., Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
December 2022  N 
Li Shuhua Yingda Securities Co.,Ltd. 
Independent 
director 
July 2023  Y 
Li Shuhua 
Yangzhou Goyoan Seiichi 
Intelligent Technology Co., 
Ltd. 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
April 2024  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushi Chengjin 
Information Consulting 
Services Ltd. 
CEO October 2016  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushiwo Research 
Information Consulting 
Service Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
December 2017  Y 
Guan Qingyou Midea Group Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
August 2018 July 2024 Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Xincai Zhibei 
Information Technology Ltd. 
Supervisor October 2018  N 
Guan Qingyou South China Futures Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
March 2019 July 2024 Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Moviebook 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
March 2019 January 2024 N 
Guan Qingyou 
Shanxi International Trust 
Co., Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
July 2019 July 2024 Y 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushiwo Research 
Institute of Science and 
Technology Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
May 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Rushi Wancheng 
Technology Development 
Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
June 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Hainan Wuyongtang 
Information Technology Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
July 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou Beijing Yaocen Yuanmu Executive director July 2020  N 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
164 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination of 
the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Information Technology Ltd. & CEO 
Guan Qingyou 
Beijing Ruoan Jiatai 
Technology Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
December 2020  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Zhongchancheng Investment 
(Shenzhen) Ltd. 
Supervisor March 2021  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Qingdao Rushiwo Research 
Investment Management Ltd. 
Supervisor November 2021  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Shenzhen Jiuzhoutongyu 
Technology Ltd. 
Supervisor January 2022  N 
Guan Qingyou 
Ucap Cloud Information 
Technology Co.,Ltd. 
Independent 
Director 
September 2022  Y 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fangguang 
Investment Management Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
February 2012  Y 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen Y unzhixun 
Network Technology Ltd. 
Director May 2014  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shenzhen Fangguang 
Enterprise Management 
Consulting Ltd. 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
May 2016  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
CETC Huayun Information 
Technology Ltd. 
Director March 2017  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Daxian Intelligent 
Science and Technology Ltd. 
Director June 2018 January 2024 N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Quanzhi Technology 
(Hangzhou) Ltd. 
Director June 2020  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fanglan Enterprise 
Management Center 
Executive Director 
and CEO 
March 2021 January 2024 N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Shanghai Fangguang 
Enterprise Management 
Consulting Ltd. 
Executive director  November 2022  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Nantong Fangjun Enterprise 
Management Co., Ltd. 
Supervisor March 2023  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Nantong Fangyuan Enterprise 
Management Co., Ltd. 
Executive Director March 2023  N 
Hong Tianfeng 
Hunan Zerafber New 
Materials Co., Ltd.  
Director August 2022  N 
Hong Tianfeng Shanghai Fangkeng Supervisor March 2024 June 2024 N 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
165 
Name Name of other Entity Position in other 
entity 
Commencement 
of the term 
Termination of 
the term 
Compensation and 
allowance from the other 
entities 
Enterprise Management Co., 
Ltd.  
Xu Ximing 
Shenzhen Wangyu Security 
Service Science and 
Technology Ltd. 
Director November 2019  N 
Xu Ximing 
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng 
Network Technology Ltd. 
Director August 2020  N 
Xu Ximing 
Hangzhou Confirmware 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director August 2021  N 
Guo Xudong 
Zhejiang Fast Line data 
fusion Information 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Director January 2021  N 
Jin Duo 
Zhejiang Haishi Huayue 
Digital Technology Ltd 
Legal representative 
and Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
January 2020 Febuary 2025 N 
Incumbent and off-office directors, supervisors and senior management personnel during the reporting period that 
have been imposed administrative penalties by the CSRC during the last three years. 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
3. Remuneration of Directors, Supervisors and Senior Management Personnel  
The decision-making program, determination basis and actual remuneration payment of directors, supervisors and 
senior management personnel: 
The remuneration of directors,  supervisors and senior management personnel will be received preliminarily by 
the Remuneration and Appraisal Committee of the Board, among them, remuneration of independent directors 
and external supervisors would be further reviewed and approved by general meeting of shareholders. As for those 
directors (exclude independent directors), supervisors (exclude external supervisors) and senior management 
personnel who receive remuneration from the Company directly, they will receive remuneration according to the 
Company's current Salary System and Performance Appraisal Schemes. 
Explanations on other situations. 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
Remuneration of directors, supervisors and senior management personnel                               
Unit: RMB 0,000 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
166 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure status 
Total 
remuneration 
from the 
Company 
(RMB'0,000) 
Remuneration 
from related 
parties (Y/N) 
Hu 
Yangzhong M 60 Chairman of the Board of Directors  Incumbent 215.53  N 
Fu Baijun M 53 Director Incumbent 0  Y 
Xu Lixing M 54 Director Incumbent 0  Y 
Xu Peng M 49 Director and CEO Incumbent 247.99  N 
Wang 
Qiuchao M 74 Director Incumbent 30.00  N 
Wu Xiaobo M 65 Independent Director Incumbent 30.00  N 
Hu Ruimin M 61 Independent Director Incumbent 30.00  N 
Lv 
Changjiang M 60 Independent Director Incumbent 12.50  N 
Tan Xiaofen M 47 Independent Director Incumbent 12.50  N 
Lu 
Jianzhong M 71 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors Incumbent 20.00  N 
Huang Xing F 41 Supervisor Incumbent 0  Y 
Pan Jia M 45 Employee Supervisor Incumbent 51.82  N 
He Hongli F 52 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 255.50  N 
Pu Shiliang M 48 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 257.18  N 
Guo Xudong M 53 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 222.84  N 
Xu Ximing M 52 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 282.66  N 
Chen Junke M 54 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 229.72  N 
Huang 
Fanghong F 43 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 229.75  N 
Jin Yan F 46 Senior Deputy General Manager, Person 
in Charge of Finance and Acounting Incumbent 229.75  N 
Cai 
Changyang M 54 Senior Deputy General Manager Incumbent 231.32  N 
Feng Wei M 46 Senior Deputy General Manager 
Board Secretary 
Incumbent 54.42  N 
Chen 
Zongnian M 60 Chairman of the Board of Directors 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
0  Y 
Qu Liyang M 61 Director 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
0  Y 
Wu Weiqi M 61 Director, Standing Deputy General Term Expired and 117.32  N 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
167 
Name Gender Age Title Tenure status 
Total 
remuneration 
from the 
Company 
(RMB'0,000) 
Remuneration 
from related 
parties (Y/N) 
Manager Resigned 
Li Shuhua M 54 Independent Director 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
17.50  N 
Guan 
Qingyou M 48 Independent Director 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
17.50  N 
Hong 
Tianfeng M 59 Chairman of the Board of Supervisors 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
11.67  N 
Xu Lirong M 62 Supervisor 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
71.40  N 
Jin Duo M 60 Senior Deputy General Manager 
Term Expired and 
Resigned 
117.40  N 
Bi Huijuan F 54 Senior Deputy General Manager Resigned  194.04  N 
Total -- -- -- -- 3190.31 -- 
Note 1: Directors (excluding independent directors), supervisors (excluding non -employee representative 
supervisors) and senior managers who serve in the Company and receive remuneration with the numeration structure 
composed of 50% of basic salary, 50% of bonuses linked to the Company's performance, and social insurance and 
provident fund paid in accordance with the statutory proportion. 
Note 2: The compensation for current directors, supervisors, and senior management during the reporting period 
reflects the total remuneration accrued during their tenure. For former directors, supervisors, and senior management 
who have left their positions, the disclosed compensation represents the total remuneration received during their 
tenure within the reporting period. 
Note 3: On August 2, 2024, Fu Baijun and Xu Lixing were elected as company directors; Lv Changjiang and Tan 
Xiaofen were elected as independent directors; Huang Xing and Pan Jia were elected as supervisors. On October 
25, 2024, Feng Wei was appointed as a senior management of the Company. 
On August 2, 2024, Chen Zongnian, Qu Liyang, and Wu Weiqi resigned as directors of the Company at the end of 
their terms; Li Shuhua and Guan Qingyou resigned as independent directors of the Company at the end of their 
terms; Hong Tianfeng and Xu Lirong resigned as supervisors of the Company at the end of their terms; Wu Weiqi 
and Jin Duo resigned as senior management of the Company at the end of their terms. On October 25, 2024, Bi 
Huijuan resigned as senior management of the Company 
 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
168 
VI. Performance of Duties by Directors during the Reporting Period 
1. The Board of Directors during the Reporting Period 
Meeting Session Convening Date Disclosure Date Meeting Resolutions 
The 20th meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
April 18, 2024 April 20, 2024 
39 proposals were deliberated and approved at 
the meeting, including 2023 Annual Report and 
Its Summary. For details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: No. 2024-009. 
The 21st meeting of the 5th session 
of the Board 
July 17, 2024 July 18, 2024 
6 proposals were deliberated and approved at the 
meeting, including the Proposal on the 
Nomination of Non-Independent Director 
Candidates for the Sixth Session of the Board. 
For details, please refer to the Company's 
announcement: No. 2024-028. 
The 1st meeting of the 6th session 
of the Board 
August 2, 2024 August 3, 2024 
6 proposals were deliberated and approved at the 
meeting, including the Proposal on the Election 
of the Chairman of the Sixth Session of Board of 
Directors. For details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: No. 2024-043. 
The 2nd meeting of the 6th session 
of the Board 
August 16, 2024 August 17, 2024 
2 proposals were deliberated and approved at the 
meeting, including the 2024 Half Year Report 
and Its Summary. For details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: No. 2024-046. 
The 3rd meeting of the 6th session 
of the Board 
October 25, 2024 October 26, 2024 
2 proposal were deliberated and approved at the 
meeting, including the 2024Q3 Report and Its 
Summary. For details, please refer to the 
Company's announcement: No. 2024-053. 
The 4th meeting of the 6th session 
of the Board 
December 9, 2024 December 10, 2024 
2 proposal were deliberated and approved at the 
meeting, including the Proposal on the 
Repurchase Plan of the Company's Shares. For 
details, please refer to the Company's 
announcement: No. 2024-060. 
2. Attendance of Directors in Board Meetings and General Meetings 
Attendance of directors in board meetings and general meetings 
Name of Director  
Board meeting 
presence 
required in the 
reporting 
Board 
meeting 
presence 
on site 
Board meeting 
presence by 
telecom- 
communication 
Board meeting 
presence through 
a proxy (times) 
Board meeting 
absence 
(times) 
Board meeting 
not attend in 
person for two 
consecutive 
Presence of 
independent 
directors in 
general 
meetings 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
169 
period (times) (times) (times) times (times) 
Hu Yangzhong  6 3 3 0 0 N 3 
Fu Baijun 4 2 2 0 0 N 2 
Xu Lixing 4 2 2 0 0 N 2 
Xu Peng 4 2 2 0 0 N 2 
Wang Qiuchao  6 2 4 0 0 N 3 
Wu Xiaobo 6 2 4 0 0 N 3 
Hu Ruimin 6 3 3 0 0 N 3 
Lv Changjiang 4 2 2 0 0 N 2 
Tan Xiaofen 4 2 2 0 0 N 2 
Chen Zongnian 2 1 1 0 0 N 2 
Qu Liyang 2 1 1 0 0 N 2 
Wu Weiqi 2 1 1 0 0 N 2 
Li Shuhua 2 1 1 0 0 N 2 
Guan Qingyou 2 1 1 0 0 N 2 
Explanation of the 
Situation 
1. On August 2, 2024, the Company convened its 2024 First Extraordinary General Meeting, completing the 
election process. Fu Baijun, Xu Lixing, and Xu Peng were elected as directors of the 6th Session of the Board of 
Directors, while Lv Changjiang and Tan Xiaofen were elected as independent directors of the 6th Session of the 
Board of Directors.  
2. During the reporting period, the 5th Session of the Board of Directors of the Company held 2 board meetings, 
while the 6th Session of the Board of Directors of the Company held 4 board meetings. 
3. Objections from Directors on Related Issues of the Company 
Were there any objections on related issues of the Company from directors? 
□ Yes √ No  
During the reporting period, there is no objections on related issues of the Company from directors. 
4. Other Details about the Performance of Duties by Directors 
Were there any suggestions from directors accepted by the Company? 
√ Yes □ No 
During the Reporting Period, directors strictly followed related rules, regulations, including Company Law, 
Rules Governing the Listing of Shares on Shenzhen Stock Exchange , Shenzhen Stock Exchange Listed Companies 
Self-Regulatory Supervision Guidelines No . 1 - Standardized Operation of Main Board Listed Companies and 
Articles of Association. They focused on the Company operation, carefully review the Company's relevant meeting 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
170 
materials, reviewed and approved a number of board resolutions, and have no objection to all the proposals; At the 
same time, the directors of the Company put forward relevant constructive suggestions based on their professional 
abilities and the actual situation of the Company, which had a positive impact on the standardized operation of the 
Company and fulfilled their duties as directors. 
The Company 's independent directors strictly followed Measures for the Administration of Independent 
Directors of Listed Companies and related rules/ regulations, carried out their duties, and attended the shareholders' 
general meetings, the board meeting, and meetings of the board's special committees. The special committee of in 
dependent directors studied and deliberated matters such as financial statement, related-party transactions, the hiring 
accounting firms, and foreign exchange hedging. To improve the Company supervisory systems and to protect the 
legal rights of the Company and shareholders, especially public shareholders as a whole,  independent directors 
provided professional and subjective  advices, enhancing the board 's management capability, ensuring the 
Company's standardized operations. For details, please refer to Independent Directors' 2024 Debriefings disclosed 
on www.cninfo.com.cn.  
VII. The Special Committees under the Board during the Reporting Period 
Committee Name Members 
Number of 
meetings held 
Convening Date Meeting Content 
Important 
comments and 
suggestions  
Strategy Committee 
of the 5th session of 
the Board of 
Directors 
Chen Zongnian 
(convener), Wu 
Xiaobo, Hu Ruimin 
2 
April 18, 2024 to 
June 11, 2024 
Reviewed and approved 3 
proposals including the 2023 
Annual W ork Report of the 
Strategy Committee of the 
Board of Directors 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Audit Committee of 
the 5th session of the 
Board of Directors 
Li Shuhua 
(convener), Wang 
Qiuchao, Guan 
Qingyou 
3 
January 19, 2024 to 
April 18, 2024 
Reviewed and approved 11 
proposals including Proposal 
on 2024 Reappointment of 
Certificated Public 
Accountants LLP 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Remuneration and 
Appraisal 
Committee of the 5th 
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Guan Qingyou 
(convener), Wu 
Xiaobo, Wu Weiqi 
3 
March 22, 2024 to 
July 17, 2024 
Reviewed and approved 8 
proposals including the 2023 
Annual Report of the 
Remuneration and Appraisal 
Committee 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Nomination 
Committee of the 5th 
Hu Ruimin 
(convener), Qu 
2 
April 18, 2024 to 
July 17, 2024 
Reviewed and approved 3 
proposals including the the 
All expressed 
concurring 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
171 
Committee Name Members 
Number of 
meetings held 
Convening Date Meeting Content 
Important 
comments and 
suggestions  
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Liyang, Li shuhua 2023 Annual Report of the 
Nomination Committee 
opinions 
Strategy Committee 
of the 6th session of 
the Board of 
Directors 
Hu Yangzhong 
(convener), Hu 
Ruimin, Wu Xiaobo 
1 September 9, 2024 
Reviewed and approved the 
Proposal on the Investment by 
the Controlled Subsidiary to 
Establish Hangzhou Micro 
Sensing Technology Ltd. 
(Provisional Name) 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Audit Committee of 
the 6th session of the 
Board of Directors 
Lv Changjiang 
(convener), Tan 
Xiaofen, Xu Lixing 
3 
August 2, 2024 to  
October 25, 2024 
Reviewed and approved 4 
proposals including the 
Proposal on the Appointment 
of the Chief Financial Officer 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Nomination 
Committee of the 6th 
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Wu Xiaobo 
(convener), Tan 
Xiaofen, Xu Lixing 
2 
August 2, 2024 to  
October 14, 2024 
Reviewed and approved 4 
proposals including the 
Proposal on the Appointment 
of the CEO 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
Risk and 
Compliance 
Committee of the 6th 
session of the Board 
of Directors 
Wang Qiuchao 
(convener), Xupeng, 
Fu Baijun 
1 August 2,2024 
Reviewed and approved the 
W ork Plan of the Risk and 
Compliance Committee of the 
Board of Directors 
All expressed 
concurring 
opinions 
VIII. Performance of Duties by the Supervisory Committee 
Were there any risks to the Company identified by Board of Supervisors when performing its duties during the 
reporting period? 
□ Yes √ No  
The Board of Supervisors has no objection to the supervision matters during the reporting period. 
IX. Staff in the Company 
1. Statistics of Employees, Professional Structure of the Staff, and Educational Background 
Number of incumbent employees in the parent Company at the end of the reporting period 17,861 
Number of incumbent employees in major subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period 41,828 
Number of incumbent employees at the end of the reporting period 59,689 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
172 
Number of employees receiving salaries in current period 59,689 
Number of retired employees requiring the parent Company and its subsidiaries to bear costs 0 
Professional structure 
Tier Number of employees  
Managerial personnel 993 
Production staff 18,302 
Sales staff 10,151 
Technical staff 28,272 
Financial staff 415 
Administrative Staff 1,556 
Total 59,689 
Educational background 
Education background Number of employees  
Master and/or doctor/or above 11,448 
Bachelor 28,740 
Junior College (professional training) 7,177 
Other 12,324 
Total 59,689 
 
2. Staff Remuneration Policy 
Hikvision applies scientific talent cultivation methods, effective talent incentive mechanisms and fair 
competition platforms to recruit talents, and continuously optimizes the talent structure. The Company provides 
employees with remuneration packages which are competitive in the industry. In addition to endowment insurance, 
medical insurance, unemployment insurance, employment injury insurance, maternity insurance and housing 
provident funds, the Company also provides employees with the supplementary comm ercial insurance, special 
allowances, and other benefits, and creates a fairer and more humanized working environment for each employee; 
so that each employee is able to demonstrate his/her value, and create value to satisfy increasing demands for a good 
life.  
3. Staff Training Plans 
The Company is driven by its long-term development strategy and aims to support business growth and talent 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
173 
development by planning and implementing a series of training programs and courses. Adhering to the dual 
strategies of "system building " and "resource development, " we leverage a digital training platform to 
comprehensively address training needs across all levels, enhancing efficiency and effectiveness. Simultaneously, 
the Company actively explores agile and diversified talent development models, focusing on key positions and core 
talents to tailor customized learning solutions that facilitate business strategy execution. 
In 2025, the Company will further strengthen its talent development system. By designing and delivering talent 
development initiatives and core business talent cultivation programs, it aims to elevate workforce capabilities and 
ensure a robust pipeline of critical talents for key roles and pivotal business campaigns. 
4. Labor Outsourcing 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
X. Profit Distribution and Capitalization of Capital Reserves  
Profit distribution policy in the reporting period, especially the formulation, implementation and adjustment of 
cash dividend policy 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
Special explanation of cash dividend policy 
Whether it complies with the provisions of the Company's articles of association or the requirements of 
the resolution of the shareholders' meeting: 
Yes 
Whether the dividend standard and dividend ratio are clear: Yes 
Whether the relevant decision-making procedures and mechanisms are complete: Yes 
Whether independent directors performed their duties and played their due roles: Yes 
For companies with no cash dividend, disclose detailed reasons and further measures to improve 
investment return for shareholders:  
Inapplicable 
Whether minority shareholders have the opportunity to fully express their opinions and demands, and 
whether their legitimate rights and interests are fully protected: 
Yes 
If the cash dividend policy is adjusted or changed, whether the conditions and procedures are 
compliant and transparent: 
Inapplicable 
The 20th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Directors of the Company reviewed and approved the 2023 
Annual Profit Distribution Proposal , and was reviewed and approved by the Company's 2023 annual general 
meeting: based on the Company 's current total share capital of 9,  330,600,931 shares, the Company proposed to 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
174 
distribute cash dividend of RMB 9 (tax inclusive) per each 10 shares to all shareholders, bonus share and share 
distribution from capital reserve is nil.  The date of record for this profit distribution is May 20, 2024 , the ex -
rights/ex-dividend date is May 21, 2024, and the total cash dividends (tax inclusive) is RMB8,397,540,837.90. 
The above -mentioned profit distribution policy conforms to the provisions of the Company's articles of 
association and the review procedu res, and fully protects the legitimate rights and interests of small and medium 
investors, and the independent directors have expressed their agreement. 
During the reporting period, the Company was profitable and the distributable profits to shareholders o f the 
parent company was positive, but the Company did not propose a cash dividend distribution plan.  
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
Profit distribution and capitalizing of capital reserves for the current reporting period 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Bonus issue per 10 shares (share) 0 
Cash dividend per 10 shares (RMB) (tax 
inclusive) 7.00 
Additional shares converted from capital reserves 
for 10 shares (share) 0 
Total capital shares as the basis for the distribution 
proposal (share) 
Based on the total number of shares outstanding as of the record date for the 
implementation of the 2024 annual profit distribution plan, minus the number of 
shares held in the company's repurchase account. 
Total cash dividend (RMB) (tax inclusive) 
The Company plans to distribute cash dividend of RMB7.00 (tax inclusive) per 
10 shares to all shareholders, based on the total number of shares outstanding as 
of the record date for the future implementation of the 2024 annual profit 
distribution plan, minus the number of shares held in the company's repurchase 
account. 
Amount of cash dividends in other methods (such 
as share repurchase) (RMB) 310,017,794.90 
Total cash dividends (including other methods) 
(RMB) 
The sum of the company's share repurchases in 2024, RMB 310,017,794.90, and 
the cash dividend of RMB 7.00 per 10 shares (tax inclusive) distributed to all 
shareholders, based on the total number of shares outstanding as of the record 
date for the implementation of the 2024 annual profit distribution plan (after 
deducting shares held in the company's repurchase account), 
 
Distributable profits (RMB) 44,480,765,952.49 
Percentage of cash dividends in the total 
distributed profit (%) 100.00% 
Cash dividend policy: 
The Company is in the development stage and has a substantial plan of cash expenditure. In the current profit distribution, cash 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
175 
dividends shall account for at least 20%. 
Details about the plan for profit distribution and capitalizing capital reserves into share capital 
As audited by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP, in 2024, the parent company of the Company realized 
net profit of RMB 9,484,641,144.09, with no withdrawal of statutory surplus reserve, adding the undistributed profi t of the parent 
company at the beginning of the year of RMB 43,150,159,133.80, deducting the cash dividends of RMB 8,309,878,493.40, adding 
back RMB155,844,168.00 of the unpaid dividends in past years for the repurchased restricted shares, as of December 31, 2024, the 
profits distributable to shareholders of the parent company amounted to RMB 44,480,765,952.49, and the profits distributable to 
shareholders in the consolidated statement were RMB 60,959,912,942.15. To sum up, according to the principle of "whichever is 
lower", the profits distributable to shareholders this year was RMB44,480,765,952.49. 
2024 annual profit distribution plan: The Company plans to distribute cash dividend of RMB7.00 (tax inclusive) per 10 shares to all 
shareholders, based on the total number of shares outstanding as of the record date for the future implementation of the 2024 annual 
profit distribution plan, minus the number of shares held in the Company's repurchase account, and bonus share and share distribution 
from capital reserve is nil. The remaining undistributed profits will be transferred to the next year. 
XI. The Implementation of an Equity Incentive Plan, Employee Stock Incentive Plan, or other 
Incentive Plans  
√Applicable □Inapplicable  
1. Share Incentive 
During the reporting period, the Company terminated the implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan 
and repurchased and canceled the relevant restricted shares. 
On April 18, 2024 and May 10, 2024, th e 20th meeting of the 5 th session of the Board of Directors, the 18 th 
meeting of the 5 th session of the Board of Supervisors and 2023 Annual General Meeting reviewed and approved 
Proposal on Terminating the Implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and Repurchasing and Canceling 
Relevant Restricted Shares, and agreed the company terminate the implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock 
Plan and repurchase and cancel all restricted stocks granted but not yet unlocked. The number of restricted stocks 
proposed to be repurchased and cancelled this time totals 97,402,605 shares, accounting for 1.0439% of the 
company's total share capital (9,330,600,931 shares) before the repurchase and cancellation. On August 15, 2024, 
the aforementioned restricted stocks have completed the repurchase and cancellation procedures at the Shenzhen 
Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited. As of the reporting day, the Company 
does not have any outstanding restricted shares. 
For details, please refer to the Announcement on Terminating the Implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock 
Plan and Repurchasing and Canceling Relevant Restricted Shares and the Announcement on the Completion of 
Repurchase and Cancellation of Restricted Stocks Related to the 20 21 Restricted Stock Plan  published by the 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
176 
Company on www.cninfo.com.cn on April 20, 2024 and August 17, 2024. 
The Company carries out accounting treatment related to the restricted stock plan in accordance with the 
requirements of accounting standards such as "Enterprise Accounting Standards No. 11 — Share-based Payment". 
For specific details, please refer to the notes to the financial statements (XII. Share-based payments). 
 
Equity incentives obtained by the directors and senior management of the Company 
√Applicable □Inapplicable  
Unit: Share  
Name Title 
Restricted 
Shares held at 
the beginning 
of the period 
Shares vested in 
the current 
period 
Shares newly 
granted in the 
current period 
Price for 
restricted  
shares granted 
(RMB per 
share) 
Restricted 
Shares held at 
period-end 
Xu Peng Board Director, CEO 70,000 70,000 - - 0 
Pu Shiliang 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
90,000 90,000 - - 0 
Xu Ximing 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager, 
90,000 90,000 - - 0 
Huang Fanghong 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager 
80,000 80,000 - - 0 
Jin Yan 
Senior Deputy General 
Manager, Person in 
Charge of Finance 
80,000 80,000 - - 0 
Total -- 410,000 410,000 -- -- 0 
Note: During the reporting period, the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan were completely repurchased and canceled, among which senior 
managers collectively repurchased and canceled to 410,000 shares. As of the reporting day, the Company does not have any 
outstanding restricted shares. 
 
Assessment and incentive mechanism for the senior management  
The Company has established a fairly sophisticated mechanism on employees ' evaluation and incentive 
restraint, and has established a fair and transparent appraisal and incentive mechanism on senior management 
personnel and other various level management personnel and employees. The Company's Board of Directors  has 
carried out annual appraisals of senior management members mainly based o n annual target achievement index. 
The Board  is responsible for  appraisals of the general manager on the general manager 's duty, capacity and 
performance of operation; and the general manager carried out appraisals of other senior management members on 
their operational management and implementation of relevant assignments. In 2024, senior management personnel 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
177 
carried out their duties diligently with good performance. In the face of complex and changing business environment, 
better of internal management, improve operating efficiency and continue to promote the steady development of the 
Company. 
2. The Implementation of Employee Stock Incentive Plan 
□Applicable √Inapplicable  
3. Other Incentive Plans 
□Applicable √Inapplicable  
XII. Construction and Implementation of Internal Control System during the Reporting Period 
1. Construction and Implementation of Internal Control 
The Company has established a scientifically designed and effectively implemented internal control system, 
and continuously strengthen inter nal audit supervision , in accordance with the Basic Standard for Enterprise 
Internal Control  and its associated Guidelines and other internal control supervision requirements. The Audit 
Committee under the Board of Directors and the Board of Supervisors supervise and comment the Company 's 
implementation of internal control, and the management is responsible for organizing and leading the daily internal 
controls of the Company. 
The Audit Committee under the Board of Directors inspects and supervises the scientificity, rationality, 
effectiveness and implementation of the Company's internal control system. At the same time, the Audit Committee 
has organized special work meetings to follow up on the implementation of major matters by the financial center 
and internal audit department, and puts forward relevant requirements on the normativeness of inter nal control of 
the Company. The Company has set up an internal audit department under the Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors, which is equipped with full -time personnel to independently carry out internal audits, supervise and 
inspect the effectiveness and rationality of internal control. The internal audit department is accountable and reports 
to the Audit Committee and reports on their work regularly. The internal audit department audits the risk profiles 
of the Company's business areas according to an annual audit plan. It highlights internal control defects and gives 
rational suggestions, and standardizes and supervises the operation and management of the Company. Through the 
operation, analysis, and evaluation of its internal control system, the Company has effectively mitigated operational 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
178 
and management risks and facilitated the achievement of internal control objectives. 
During the reporting period, the Company continuously strengthened its self-evaluation and self-improvement 
on internal contr ol. It continued to improve and thoroughly implement internal control in its departments and 
strengthened the awareness of compliance management, to ensure the effective implementation of the internal 
control system, improve the standard of the Company 's o perations, and promote the healthy and sustainable 
development of the Company. For more details, please refer to the  2024 Internal Control Self -Evaluation Report 
disclosed by the Company on CNINFO website (www.cninfo.com.cn). 
2. Any Significant Internal Control Deficiencies during the Reporting Period 
□ Yes √ No  
XIII. The Company's Management and Control of Subsidiaries during the Reporting Period 
In strict adherence to the relevant laws and regulations such as the Authorization Management System and the 
regulations and normative documents of regulatory authorities, the Company considers and approves proposals on 
the acquisition and cancellation the registration of new subsidiaries, and exercises management powers over major 
matters of the subsidiaries in a ccordance with the requirements regarding assets control over the subsidiaries and 
the standard operations of the Company. At the same time, subsidiaries shall provide timely, complete and accurate 
information to the Company such as operating results, fina ncial position and operating prospects, so that the 
Company can conduct scientific decision-making, supervision and coordination. 
During the reporting period, the Company established four domestic subsidiaries  and three overseas 
subsidiaries, and gained actual control of 1 subsidiary through entrusted management agreements. All of this result 
in changes in the scope of its consolidation scope. For details, please refer to changes in the consolidation scope in 
Note (VI) to the financial statements. 
XIV. Self-evaluation Report on Internal Control or Internal Control Audit Report  
1. Self-evaluation Report on Internal Control  
Disclosure date of full text of self-evaluation report on internal control April 19, 2025 
Disclosure index of full text of self-evaluation report on internal control www.cninfo.com.cn 
Proportion of assets evaluated in total assets 100.00% 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
179 
Proportion of revenue evaluated in total revenue per consolidated financial statement 100.00% 
Recognition standard of deficiencies 
Nature Financial report level Non-financial report level 
Qualitative criteria 
Significant deficiency:  
A deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control 
may prevent significant errors in financial reports from being 
identified or prevented, e.g.: 
A. Invalid internal control environment; 
B. Fraud of directors, supervisors and senior management 
personnel on the financial report ; 
C. Significant errors identified by external auditors but not 
identified during the Company is operating; 
D. Invalid supervision of audit committee and internal audit 
system; 
E. Other deficiencies that may lead to the wrong judgement of 
financial statement reporter. 
Important deficiency:  
A deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control 
may prevent errors in financial report from being identified or 
prevented, although such deficiency is not significant, but 
require attention of the Board and Management, e.g.: 
A. Application of accounting policies does not follow the 
enterprise accounting standard; 
B. No internal control systems for fraud; 
C. No control systems or system not effective for unusual or 
special transactions or no compensatory relevant control; 
D. One or more deficiencies which prevent the preparation of 
true and fair financial statements.  
Normal deficiency: Not significant and not important 
deficiency. 
 
Internal control deficiencies at non-
financial report level are mainly identified 
by the likelihood of occurrence and the 
extent of impacts on operating effective in 
business.  
Significant deficiency: the high likelihood 
leading to significant reduction of working 
efficiency, or significant increase of 
uncertainty, or significant deviation from 
the expected target; 
Important deficiency: a higher likelihood 
leading to remarkable reduction of 
working efficiency, or remarkable increase 
of uncertainty, or remarkable deviation 
from the expected target; 
Normal deficiency: a low likelihood 
leading to reduction of working efficiency, 
or increase of uncertainty, or deviation 
from the expected target; 
 
Quantitative criteria 
Significant deficiency: potential errors 5% or more of total 
profits 
Important deficiency: potential errors 2% or more but below 
5% of total profits 
Normal deficiency: potential errors is 2% or less of total 
profits 
Significant deficiency: direct losses of 
assets is 5% or more of total profits 
Important deficiency: direct losses of 
assets is2% or more but below 5% of total 
profits 
Normal deficiency: direct losses of assets 
is below 2% of total profits 
Number of significant deficiencies in financial report level 0 
Number of significant deficiencies in non-financial report level 0 
Number of important deficiencies in financial report level 0 
Number of important deficiencies in non-financial report level 0 
2. Internal Control Audit Report  
√Applicable □Inapplicable  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
180 
Deliberation Opinion Paragraph in Internal Control Audit Report 
We believe that Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting in 
all material aspects as of December 31st 2024 in accordance with the Basic Standard for Enterprise Internal Control and other 
related regulations. 
Disclosure of internal control audit 
report  
Disclose 
Disclosure date of the full text of 
the internal control audit report 
April 19, 2025  
Disclosure index of full text of 
internal control audit report 
www.cninfo.com.cn  2024 Internal Control Audit Report 
Internal control audit opinion Standard unqualified audit opinion 
Whether there are material 
weakness of non-financial report 
No 
Whether the accounting firm issued an internal control audit report with a non-standard opinion 
□ Yes √ No  
Whether the internal control audit report issued by the accounting firm is consistent with the opinion of the self-evaluation report from 
the Board of Directors 
√ Yes □No 
  
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
181 
Section V Environmental and Social Responsibility 
I. Significant Environmental Issues 
Whether the Company or any of its subsidiaries should be categorized as a  critical pollutant enterprises published 
by environmental protection department 
□Yes √No 
II. Social Responsibilities 
For details, please refer to the Company's 2024 Environment, Social and Governance Report disclosed on CNINFO 
(www.cninfo.com.cn). 
III. The Achievements of Poverty Alleviation and Rural Revitalization 
For details, please refer to the Company's 2024 Environment, Social and Governance Report disclosed on CNINFO 
(www.cninfo.com.cn).
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
182 
Section VI Significant Events 
I. Performance of Commitments 
1. Complete and Incomplete Commitments of the Company and Its Actual Controller, Shareholders, Related parties, Acquirers, and Other Related 
Parties for the Commitments by the End of the Reporting Period. 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
Commitments in 
offering 
documents or 
shareholding 
alterations 
CETHIK 
Commitments 
regarding horizontal 
competition and 
related party 
transactions 
1. Commitments in non-competition within the industry: In the period as 
controlling shareholders of the Hikvision, CETHIK and its controlling 
subsidiaries (excluding Hikvision and its subsidiaries, the same below) will not 
be engaged in such business that is competitive to Hikvision and its 
subsidiaries directly or indirectly. 
2. Commitments in decrease and regulation of transactions with related party: 
Zhejiang Haikang Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Haikang Group 
or actual controller) as the controlling shareholders of Hangzhou Hikvision 
Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hikvision" or "Listed 
Company") are committed as below for the transactions with Hikvision: 
(1) Haikang Group will not make use of the controlling power to offer more 
favorable conditions to Hikvision than those to any independent third party in 
any fair market transactions in the cooperation with Hikvision. 
(2) Haikang Group will not make use of the controlling power to obtain the 
prior right to complete the transaction with Hikvision. 
(3) Haikang Group will not deal with Hikvision in not fair terms comparing to 
the market prices to prejudice the Company's interests. 
 For unavoidable related transactions, the Company will observe the 
principles of justice and fairness to determine prices according to the market 
on the basis of equality, voluntarily. The Company will obey the Articles of 
Association and other regulatory documents related to the avoiding of issues 
October 29,  
2013 Long-term Strict 
performance  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
183 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
about related transactions. The related transactions will go through approval 
procedures in accordance with related rules and complete legal procedures, 
fulfilling the information disclosure obligations in respect to the related 
transactions 
3. Commitment to the maintenance of the independence of the listed Company 
3.1 Commitment to Personnel Independence of the listed Company 
(1) Commitment that our general manager, deputy general manager, chief 
financial officer, secretary of the board and other members of senior 
management shall not assume any positions other than directors and 
supervisors or get any remuneration in CETHIK and/or any of its controlled 
entities; (2) Commitment in keeping the management of labor, human 
resources and issues related to remuneration of the listed Company 
independent from that of CETHIK; 
3.2 Commitment to the independence of the asset of the listed Company 
(1) Commitment to independent and complete asset of the listed Company 
(2) Commitment free of unlawful use of cash and asset of the listed Company 
by the controlling shareholders    
3.3 Commitment to financial independence of the listed Company 
(1) Commitment to an independent finance department with a team and 
accounting system; 
(2) Commitment to a regulated, independent accounting system and financial 
management system of the branches and subsidiaries  
(3) Commitment to maintaining accounts with banks independently of and not 
sharing any bank account with our controlling shareholders 
(4) Commitment that the financial staff shall not assume any positions in 
CETHIK  
(5) Commitment to paying taxes independently according to the law; 
(6) Commitment to implementing financial decisions independently 
3.4 The Company has set up an independent organizational structure which 
maintains its independent operations which is independent from that of 
CETHIK. 
3.5 Commitment to business Independence of the listed Company 
(1) The Company has the asset, personnel, aptitude and management capability 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
184 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
for independent and complete business operation. The Company has the ability 
to operate independently in the market. 
(2) Commitment in independence in both business and operations 
4. Regarding plans for the development and relevant commitment for the listed 
Company, Haikang Group has committed as below for the subsequent 
development of Hikvision according to the Securities Acts and relevant laws 
and rules,  
4.1 Currently the Company has no plan to change or make significant 
adjustments for principal business in the next 12 months;   
4.2 Currently the Company has no plan to sell, merge or operate with another 
Company for the assets and business of the listed Company or its subsidiaries 
in the next 12 months. 
4.3 Currently the Company has no plan to alter the Board of the Directors and 
senior management and no agreement with other shareholders about the 
appointment and removal of the directors or senior management. The team of 
Board of Directors and senior management will remain unchanged for the 
foreseeable future. 
4.4 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes to the 
Articles of Association for the listed Company. 
4.5 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes to the 
existing employee recruitment for the listed Company. 
4.6 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes for the 
dividend distribution plan for the listed Company. 
4.7 Currently the Company has no plan to make significant changes for 
business and organizational structure for the listed Company. 
Commitments in 
Initial Public 
Hangzhou Weixun Equity 
Investment Partnership 
Share restriction 
commitment 
During Hu Yangzhong, Wu Weiqi, Jiang Haiqing, Zhou Zhiping, Xu Lirong, 
Cai Dingguo, He Hongli, Zheng Yibo, Hu Dan, Jiang Yufeng, Liu Xiang, 
May 17,  
2010 
Long term Strict 
performance 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
185 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
Offering or re-
financing  
(Limited Partnership) Wang Ruihong, Chen Junke's tenure of the Company's Board of Directors, 
supervisors and senior management personnel, the annual transfer of 
Hikvision's total shares should not exceed 25% of total number of shares held 
under Weixun; within 6 months after abovementioned personnel's demission, 
should not transfer Hikvision's shares held under Weixun. 
Hangzhou Pukang Equity 
Investment Partnership 
(Limited Partnership) 
Share restriction 
commitment 
During Hu Yangzhong, Wu Weiqi, Gong Hongjia's tenure of the Company's 
Board of Directors, supervisors and senior management personnel, the annual 
transfer of Hikvision's total shares should not exceed 25% of total number of 
shares held under Pukang; within 6 months after abovementioned personnel's 
demission, should not transfer Hikvision's shares held under Pukang. 
May 17, 
2010 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
The Company's directors, 
supervisors and executive: 
HuYangzhong, Wu Weiqi, 
Jiang Haiqing, Zhou 
Zhiping, Xu Lirong, Cai 
Dingguo, He Hongli, Zheng 
Yibo, Hu Dan, Jiang 
Yufeng, Liu Xiang, Wang 
Ruihong, Chen Junke  
Share restriction 
commitment 
During their tenure of the Company's Board of Directors, supervisors and 
senior management personnel, the annual shares transfer should not exceed 
25% of total number of shares held under Weixun; within 6 months after their 
demission, they should not transfer their shares held under Weixun. 
May 17, 
2010 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Directors, executive officers 
of the Company: Hu 
Yangzhong, Wu Weiqi 
Share restriction 
commitment 
During their tenure of the Company's Board of Directors, supervisors and 
senior management personnel, the annual shares transfer should not exceed 
25% of total number of shares held under Pukang; within 6 months after their 
demission, they should not transfer their shares held under Pukang. 
May 17, 
2010 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
The Company's director 
Gong Hongjia's spouse, 
Chen Chunmei  
Share restriction 
commitment 
During Gong Hongjia's tenure of the Company's Board of Directors, 
supervisors and senior management personnel, Chen's annual shares transfer 
should not exceed 25% of total number of shares held under Pukang; within 6 
 
May 17, 
2010 
Long-term 
Strict 
performance  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
186 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
months after the demission of Gong Hongjia, Chen should not transfer her 
shares held under Pukang. 
 
China Electronics 
Technology Group 
Corporation 
Commitment to 
avoid horizontal 
competition 
To avoid any loss of the Company and other shareholders arising from any 
competing business, China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, the 
actual controller of the Company, issued Letters of non-competition on 18 
September, 2008.  
September 
18, 2008 
Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Gong Hongjia; Hangzhou 
Weixun Equity Investment 
Partnership (Limited 
Partnership); Hangzhou 
Pukang Equity Investment 
Partnership (Limited 
Partnership); ZheJiang 
Orient Holdings Co., Ltd. 
Commitment to 
avoid horizontal 
competition 
To avoid any loss of the Company and other shareholders arising from any 
competing business, Gong Hongjia, Hangzhou WeiXun I Equity Investment 
Partnership (Limited Partnership), ZheJiang Orient Holdings Co., Ltd. and 
Hangzhou Pukang Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership), the 
promoters of the Company, issued Commitment Letters of non-competition in 
the same industry on July 10, 2008. 
 
 
July 10, 2008 Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Other 
commitments 
(commitments 
relating to the 
spin-off of 
EZVIZ Network 
to be listed on 
the Science and 
Technology 
Innovation 
Board)   
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
Commitment 
relating to the spin-
off of EZVIZ 
Network to be listed 
on the Science and 
Technology 
Innovation Board 
Arrangement on trading restriction and commitement to voluntarily restrict 
shares relating to the spin-off of EZVIZ Network to be listed on the Science 
and Technology Innovation Board, for details, please refer to the appendix Ⅵ 
of the Prospectus on the Initial Public Share Offering and Listing on the STAR 
Market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange of Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., 
Ltd. published by EZVIZ Network on the website of Shanghai Stock Exchange 
(www.sse.com.cn): commitments relating to investor protection. 
December 
28, 2022 
Within 36 
months from 
the date of 
issuing and 
listing of 
EZVIZ 
Network 
Strict 
performance 
Commitment relating to the intention to hold shares and the intention to reduce 
holdings of shares of EZVIZ Network of the spin-off of EZVIZ Network to be 
listed on the Science and Technology Innovation Board, for details, please refer 
to the appendix Ⅵ of the Prospectus on the Initial Public Share Offering and 
Listing on the STAR Market of the Shanghai Stock Exchange of Hangzhou 
EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd.  published by EZVIZ Network on the website of 
Shanghai Stock Exchange (www.sse.com.cn): commitments relating to investor 
December 
28, 2022 
Within 2 years 
from the end 
date of shares 
restriction 
period of 
Strict 
performance 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
187 
Commitments Giver of commitments Commitment type Details of commitments Date of 
commitments 
Term of 
commitments Performance 
protection. EZVIZ 
Network 
Commitments and initiatives to stabilize the stock price of EZVIZ Network, to 
repurchase shares of EZVIZ Network, to guarantee no fraud in listing of EZVIZ 
Network, to make compensation for diluted spot return, to undertake 
compensation or liability in accordance with the  law, to have constraints for 
failing to fulfill commitments, to avoid intra -industry competition, to regulate 
and reduce related party transactions, to avoid capital occupation, and to keep 
system independent after the spin -of of EZVIZ Network to be liste d on the 
Science and Technology Innovation Board. For details, please refer the 
Prospectus on the Initial Public Share Offering and Listing on the STAR Market 
of the Shanghai Stock Exchange of Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd.  
published by EZVIZ Network on the website of Shanghai Stock Exchange 
(www.sse.com.cn): commitments relating to investor protection. 
December 
28, 2022 Long term 
Strict 
performance 
Whether the 
commitments is 
fulfilled in time 
 
Yes 
 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
188 
2. Where Any Profit Forecast Was Made for Any of the Company's Assets or Projects and the Current 
Reporting Period Is Still Within the Forecast Period, the Company Shall Explain Whether the 
Performance of the Asset or Project Reaches the Profit Forecast and Why: 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
II. The Company 's Funds Used  by the Controlling Shareholder or Other Related Parties for 
Non-operating Purposes 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the current reporting period. 
 
III. Illegal Provision of Guarantees for External Parties 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case in the current reporting period. 
 
IV. Explanation Given by the Board of Directors regarding the Latest "Non-standard Auditor's 
Report" 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
V. Explanation Given by the Board of Directors, Supervisory Committee and Independent 
Directors (if applicable) regarding the "Non -standard Auditor's Report" Issued by the CPA 
Firm for the Current Reporting Period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
VI. For Changes in Accounting Policies, Accounting Estimates or Correction of Significant 
Accounting Errors Compared with the Financial Report for the Prior Year 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
 For details, please refer to the Note (III) 35. 
VII. Explanation for Changes in Scope of the Consolidated Financial Statements as Compared 
to the Financial Report for the Prior Year 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
During the reporting period, the Company established four domestic subsidiaries and three overseas 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
189 
subsidiaries, and gained actual control of 1 subsidiary through entrusted management agreements. All of this result 
in changes in the scope of its consolidation scope. For details, please refer to changes in the consolidation scope in 
Note (VI) to the financial statements. 
 
VIII. Engagement and Disengagement of the CPA firm 
CPA firm engaged at present 
Name of the domestic CPA firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
Remuneration for the domestic CPA firm (RMB'0000) 440 
Consecutive years of the audit service provided by the 
domestic CPA firm 9 
Name of the certified public accountants from the 
domestic CPA firm Chen Yan, Liu Ying 
Consecutive years of the audit service provided by the 
certified public accountants from the domestic CPA 
firm 
Chen Yan has provided audit service for 2 year; 
Liu Ying has provided audit service for 2 year. 
Whether the CPA firm was changed in the current period 
□ Yes √ No 
 
Whether to reappoint a CPA firm during the audit 
□ Yes √ No 
 
Engagement of internal control audit CPA firm, financial advisor or sponsor 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable  
During the reporting period, the Company hired Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
as the internal control audit accounting firm, and paid a total of RMB 630,000 of internal control audit fees during 
the period. 
 
IX. Delisting after Disclosure of this Annual Report 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
X. Bankruptcy and Restructuring 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period. 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
190 
XI. Material Litigations and Arbitration 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company had no material litigation or arbitration during the current reporting period. 
XII. Punishments and Rectifications 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period. 
XIII. Integrity of the Company and its Controlling Shareholders and Actual Controllers 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
191 
XIV. Significant Related-party Transaction 
1. Related-party Transactions Arising from Routine Daily Operations 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Related party 
transaction 
amount(0'000 RMB) 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0'000 RMB) 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Subsidiaries or 
research institutes 
of CETC 
Under the common 
control of the Company 's 
actual controller  
Procurement 
Purchasing 
of raw 
materials, 
receiving 
services, and 
others 
Reference 
market 
price 
agreed by 
both parties 
189,782.68 3.89% 350,000.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
April 20, 
2024 
 
Announcement 
on the forecast 
of daily 
related-party 
transactions in 
2024 (No. 
2024-014) 
Joint ventures 
Joint ventures held by the 
Company 
765.20 0.02%    2,200.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Associated 
companies 
Associated companies 
held by the Company 
28,161.30 0.58%     61,900.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Other related 
parties 
See Note 1 for details 118,964.55 2.44%   200,200.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Subsidiaries or 
research institutes 
of CETC 
Under the common 
control of the Company 's 
actual controller. 
Sales 
Providing 
services, 
selling 
products 
commercial 
goods, and 
others 
Reference 
market 
price 
agreed by 
both parties 
21,928.03 0.24%   50,000.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
 April 20, 
2024 
Joint ventures  
Joint ventures held by the 
Company 
3,487.95 0.04%   18,600.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Associated 
companies 
Associated companies 
held by the Company 
3,447.41 0.04%   15,700.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
Other related 
parties 
See Note 1 for details 2,200.44 0.02%   10,300.00  No 
Payment on 
delivery 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                       
192 
Related party Relationship 
Type of 
related 
transaction 
Content of 
related 
transaction 
Pricing 
principles 
for related 
party 
transactions 
Related party 
transaction 
amount(0'000 RMB) 
Proportion 
to the 
amount of 
similar 
transactions. 
Approved 
trading quota 
(0'000 RMB) 
Whether 
exceed the  
approved 
quota 
Settlement 
method 
Disclosure 
date 
Disclosure 
reference 
Subsidiaries or 
research institutes 
of CETC 
Under the common 
control of the Company 's 
actual controller. 
Lease 
Renting 
house from 
related 
parties 
Reference 
market 
price 
agreed by 
both parties 
167.06 0.37% 500.00 No 
Based on 
contract 
April 20, 
2024 
 
Total 368,904.61 - 709,400 - - - - 
Details on significant sales return None 
Total amount of related transactions projected based on 
different categories, and the actual performance during the 
current reporting period (if any) 
The aforementioned estimated amount includes the additional amount that was added during the actual execution. According to the 
relevant rules and the Company's Management System of Related Transaction , this additional amount has been approved by the 
Company's chairman. 
Reasons on significant difference between trading price and 
market referencing price (if applicable)   
Not applicable 
Note 1: Enterprises controlled, jointly controlled or serving as directors or senior management personnel by affiliated natural persons of the Company (including 
directors, supervisors, senior management of the Company, shareholders holding more than 5% of the shares of the Company and their close family members). 
Note 2: The data shown in the totals may differ slightly from the sum of the relevant individual data due to rounding.
                                             Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
193 
2. Related-party Transactions regarding Purchase and Disposal of Assets or Equity 
□Applicable √Inapplicable  
No such case in the reporting period. 
3. Significant Related-party Transactions Arising from Joint Investments on External Parties 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
4. Related Credit and Debt Transactions 
□ Applicable √Inapplicable 
No related-parties' creditor's rights or debts during the reporting period. 
5. Transactions with Related Financial Companies 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
 
Deposit business 
Related Party Relationship 
Maximum 
daily deposit 
limit (0,000 
RMB) 
Deposit interest 
rate range 
Opening 
balance 
(restated) 
(0,000 RMB) 
Amount incurred (0,000 RMB) 
Closing 
Balance (0,000 
RMB) 
Total deposit 
amount for the 
current period 
(0,000 RMB) 
Total 
withdrawal 
amount for the 
current period 
(0,000 RMB) 
CETC Finance 
Co., Ltd. 
Under the 
common 
control of the 
Company's 
actual 
controller 
1,643,272.24 0.1%-1.75% 401,364.74 538,540.57 539,886.94 400,018.37 
 
Loan business 
Related Party Relationship 
Loan Quota 
(0,000 RMB) 
Loan Interest 
Rate Range 
Opening 
Balance 
(0,000 RMB) 
Amount incurred (0,000 
RMB) Closing 
Balance 
(0,000 RMB) 
Total Loan 
Amount for 
the Current 
Period (0,000 
Total 
Repayment 
Amount for 
the Current 
                                             Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
194 
RMB) Period (0,000 
RMB) 
CETC Finance 
Co., Ltd. 
Under the 
common 
control of the 
Company's 
actual 
controller 
500,000.00 2.8% - 15,000.00 - 15,000.00 
 
Credit or other financial services 
Related Party Relationship Business Type  
Total Amount  
(0,000 RMB) 
Actual amount incurred 
(0,000 RMB)  
CETC Finance Co., Ltd. Under the common control of the 
Company's actual controller 
Other financial 
services 
600,000.00 415,600.00 
Note: 1. The above amount is the amount of entrusted loans issued by the Company to its subsidiaries through China Electronics 
Technology Finance Co., Ltd. during the year. 
2. The Company's renewable credit line with CETC Finance Co., Ltd. in the current year shall not exceed RMB 5 billion (inclusive), 
with actual utilized amount reaching RMB 150 million, all of which are loan businesses (see the table above). 
6. Transactions between the Financial Company Controlled by the Company and Related Parties 
□ Applicable √Inapplicable 
7. Other Significant Related Party Transactions 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
There is no other significant related party transactions during the reporting period. 
XV. Significant Contracts and Their Execution 
1. Trusteeship, Contracting and Leasing 
(1) Trusteeship 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
(2) Contracting 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
(3) Leasing 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
No such case in the reporting period. 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
195 
2. Significant Guarantees 
√Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: RMB'0000 
Guarantees provided by the Company to its subsidiaries 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of 
announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
cap 
Actual 
occurrence date  
Actual guaranteed 
amount 
Type of 
guarantee Guarantee expiration date Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related 
party or 
not 
Hangzhou Hikvision Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 1,088,400.00  July 26, 2021 294,596.32  
Joint 
guarantee 
May 9, 2029 No  No  
LuoPu HaiShi DingXin Electronic 
Technology Ltd. 
April 20, 2024 29,000.00 March 26, 2019 19,520.00 
Joint 
guarantee 
March 3, 2025 Yes  No  
PiShan HaiShi YongAn Electronic 
Technology Ltd. 
April 20, 2024 28,000.00  March 26, 2019 18,678.00  
Joint 
guarantee 
March 27, 2025 Yes  No  
Moyu HaiShi Electronic Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 24,000.00  March 26, 2019 15,440.00  
Joint 
guarantee 
March 27, 2025 Yes  No  
Hangzhou Hikvision System Technology 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024 80,000.00  March 23, 2021 13,351.44  
Joint 
guarantee 
March 31, 2026 No  No  
Urumqi HaiShi Xin'An Electronic 
Technology Ltd.  
April 20, 2024 37,000.00  March 26, 2019 9,542.00  
Joint 
guarantee 
January 13, 2025 Yes  No  
Hangzhou Hikvision Electronic Ltd. April 20, 2024 21,500.00  
October 23, 
2023 
 4,200.00  
Joint 
guarantee 
March 31, 2026 No No  
Nanjing Hikvision Digital Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 11,000.00 June 30, 2022 3,853.70  
Joint 
guarantee 
July 31, 2025 No No  
Chongqing Hikvision Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 25,000.00  May 10, 2024   2,400.00  
Joint 
guarantee 
March 31, 2026 No  No  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
196 
Guarantees provided by the Company to its subsidiaries 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of 
announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
cap 
Actual 
occurrence date  
Actual guaranteed 
amount 
Type of 
guarantee Guarantee expiration date Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related 
party or 
not 
Chongqing Hikvision System Technology 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024 2,000.00 March 30, 2023 173.95 
Joint 
guarantee 
July 24, 2025 No No 
 Y utian HaiShi Meitian Electronic 
Technology Ltd. 
April 20, 2024 30,000.00  March 26, 2019          -    
Joint 
guarantee 
December 23, 2024 Yes No  
Xi'an Hikvision Digital Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 18,000.00  
September 29, 
2022 
         -    
Joint 
guarantee 
July 31, 2025 Yes  No  
Wuhan Haorong Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 33,000.00  
December 4, 
2023 
         -    
Joint 
guarantee 
July 31, 2025 Yes  No  
Shijiazhuang Hikvision Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024 12,000.00 
October 18, 
2023 
         -    
Joint 
guarantee 
July 31, 2025 Yes No 
Hikvision International Co.,Limited April 20, 2024    85,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
HIKVISION TECHNOLOGY PTE. LTD April 20, 2024     10,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Zhengzhou Hikvision Digital Technology 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024     6,100.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Chengdu Hikvision Digital Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024      6,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Nanchang Hikvision Digital Technology 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024     4,500.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Hefei Hikvision Digital Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024     3,500.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Hikvision Digital Technology (Shanghai) 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024    3,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Fuzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024     2,500.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
197 
Guarantees provided by the Company to its subsidiaries 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of 
announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
cap 
Actual 
occurrence date  
Actual guaranteed 
amount 
Type of 
guarantee Guarantee expiration date Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related 
party or 
not 
Wuhan Hikvision Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024     1,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Total guarantee cap for subsidiaries approved during the 
reporting period (B1) 
             1,560,500.00  
Total actual guarantee amount for 
subsidiaries during the reporting 
period (B2) 
                    1,195,187.89  
Total approved guarantee cap for subsidiaries at the end of the 
reporting period (B3)           1,560,500.00  
Total actual guarantee balance for 
subsidiaries at the end of the 
reporting period (B4) 
              381,755.41  
Guarantees provided by the Company's subsidiary to another subsidiary 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of 
announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
cap 
Actual 
occurrence date  
Actual guaranteed 
amount 
Type of 
guarantee 
Guarantee expiration date 
Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related  
Hangzhou Haikang Machine Intelligence 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024   23,000.00  June 13, 2023   2,373.92  
Joint 
guarantee 
2025.04.12 No No 
Hangzhou Hikmicro Intelligent Technology 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024    11,000.00  
November 2, 
2023 
   1,935.15  
Joint 
guarantee 
2025.04.12 No No 
Hangzhou Haikang Intelligent Technology 
Ltd. 
April 20, 2024   32,000.00  March 14, 2022 1,297.51 
Joint 
guarantee 
2026.02.27 No No 
Hikrobot Europe B.V. April 20, 2024 5,000.00 
August 29, 
2024 
515.82 
Joint 
guarantee 
2026.07.19 No No 
Chongqing EZVIZ Electronic Ltd. April 20, 2024    17,000.00  
September 11, 
2023 
   -  
Joint 
guarantee 
2024.09.11 Yes No 
Zhangjiang Hikfire Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024    10,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
198 
Guarantees provided by the Company to its subsidiaries 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of 
announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
cap 
Actual 
occurrence date  
Actual guaranteed 
amount 
Type of 
guarantee Guarantee expiration date Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related 
party or 
not 
Hikrobot Korea Limited April 20, 2024 5,000.00 Not happened during the reporting period 
Wuhan Hikfire Technology Ltd. April 20, 2024    3,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Software Ltd. April 20, 2024    1,000.00  Not happened during the reporting period 
Total guarantee cap for subsidiaries approved during the 
reporting period (C1) 
107,000.00 
Total actual guarantee amount for 
subsidiaries during the reporting 
period (C2) 
32,322.40 
Total approved guarantee cap for subsidiaries at the end of the 
reporting period(C3) 
107,000.00 
Total actual guarantee balance for 
subsidiaries at the end of the 
reporting period(C4) 
6,122.40 
The total amount of Company's guarantees (that is, the total of the first three items) 
Total guarantee cap approved during the reporting 
period(A1+B1+C1) 
1,667,500.00 
Total actual guarantee amount 
during the reporting 
period(A2+B2+C2) 
1,227,510.29 
Total approved guarantee cap at the end of the reporting 
period(A3+B3+C3) 
1,667,500.00 
Total actual guarantee balance at 
the end of the reporting 
period(A4+B4+C4) 
387,877.81 
Portion of the total actual guarantee (A4+B4+C4) amount in net 
assets of the Company 
4.81% 
Of which: 
The balance of guarantee for shareholders, actual controllers and 
their affiliates. (D) 
0 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
199 
Guarantees provided by the Company to its subsidiaries 
Guaranteed party 
Disclosure date of 
announcement of 
the guarantee cap 
Guarantee 
cap 
Actual 
occurrence date  
Actual guaranteed 
amount 
Type of 
guarantee Guarantee expiration date Fulfilled 
or not 
Guarantee 
for a 
related 
party or 
not 
Amount of debt guarantees provided directly or indirectly for 
entities with a liability-to-asset ratio over 70% (E) 
367,752.42 
Total amount of guarantee exceeding 50% of net assets (F) 0 
Total guarantee amount of the above-mentioned 3 kinds of 
guarantees (D+E+F) 
367,752.42 
Disclosure regarding outstanding guarantee contracts during the 
reporting period where guarantee obligations have been triggered 
or there is evidence indicating potential joint and several liability 
(if applicable). 
None 
Disclosure regarding external guarantees provided in violation of 
established procedures (if applicable). 
None 
3. Entrusted Others to Manage Cash Assets 
(1) Entrusted financial management 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period 
(2) Entrusted loan management 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period
                                             Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                    
200 
4. Other Significant Contracts 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such case during the reporting period 
 
XVI. Other Significant Events 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
 1. During the reporting period, the Company re-elected the board of directors, supervisors and senior 
management personnel. 
On August 2, 2024, the company convened the 1 st First Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders in 
2024, electing the 6th Board of Directors and 6th Board of Supervisors. 
The 6th Board of Directors consists of 9 members: 5 Non -independent Directors, Mr. Hu Yangzhong, Mr. Fu 
Baijun, Mr. Xu Lixing, Mr. Xu Peng, Mr. Wang Qiuchao), and 4 Independent Directors,Mr. Wu Xiaobo, Mr. Hu 
Ruimin, Mr. Lv Changjiang (Accounting Professional), Mr. Tan Xiaofen. 
The 6 th Board of Supervisors comprises 3 members: Mr. Lu Jianzhong, Ms. Huang Xing, and Mr. Pan Jia 
(Employee Representative Supervisor, elected through the Employee Representative Assembly). 
On August 2, 2024, the Company held the 1st Meeting of the 6th Board of Directors, electing Mr. Hu Yangzhong 
as Chairman of the Bboard of Directors and appointing Mr. Xu Peng as General Manager, along with other senior 
management personnel. 
On August 2, 2024, the company convened the 1 st Meeting of the 6th Board of Supervisors, electing Mr. Lu 
Jianzhong as Chairman of the Board of Supervisors. 
On October 25, 2024, the company held the 3rd Meeting of the 6th Board of Directors, appointing Mr. Feng Wei 
as Senior Deputy General Manager and concurrently Board Secretary. 
For details, please refer to Announcement on Resolutions of the 1st Extraordinary General Meeting of 2024,  
Announcement on Resolutions of the 1st Meeting of the 6th session of the Board of Directors, Announcement on the 
Election of Employee Representative Supervisors for the 6th Supervisory Board, Announcement on Resolutions of 
the 1st Meeting of the 6th session of the Board of Supervisors, and Announcement on Resolutions of the 3st Meeting 
of the 6th session of the Board of Directors , which we re published by the Company on www.cninfo.com.cn on 
August 3, 2024 and October 25, 2024. 
 2. The Company's controlling shareholder and persons acting in concert have completed the plan to 
                                             Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                    
201 
increase their shareholdings. 
The Company received a notice from Chi na Electronics Technology HIK Group Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
"CETHIK"), the Company's controlling shareholder, and its concerted actor CETC Investment Holdings Co., Ltd. 
(hereinafter referred to as "CETC Investment") on October 18, 2024 that CETHIK and CETC Investment intended 
to increase its shareholdings of the Company's shares through the trading system of the Shenzhen Stock Exchange 
through centralized bidding within 6 months from October 19, 2024. The total amount of the increased 
shareholdings by CETHIK would not be less than RMB200 million and not more than RMB300 million, while the 
total amount of the increased shareholdings by CETC Investment would not be less than RMB100 million and not 
more than RMB200 million.  The funding sources for CETH IK include its own funds and special loans for stock 
acquisition, whereas CETC Investment's funding comes from its own capital. 
By the close of 8 April, 2025, CETHIK cumulatively acquired 6,845,600 shares through centralized bidding 
transactions on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, representing 0.0741% of the company's total share capital at the time, 
with a total investment of RMB 200,182,737.28 (excluding transaction fees). By the close of 8 April, 2025, CETC 
Investment cumulatively acquired 12,853,665 shares through centralized bidding transactions on the Shenzhen 
Stock Exchange, representing 0.0347% of the company's total share capital at the time, with a total investment of 
RMB 100,016,373.80 (excluding transaction fees).  
The Company has duly fulfilled its disclosure obligations in accordance with relevant regulations upon 
reaching the halfway point and completion of the aforementioned share increase plan and its completion. For details, 
please refer to the announcements published on the CNINFO website: the Announcement on the Share Increase 
Plan by the Company's Controlling Shareholder and Its Concerted Parties (October 19, 2024), the Announcement 
on the Controlling Shareholder Obtaining a Special Loan Commitment Letter for Share Increase  (December 14, 
2024), the Progress Announcement at the Midpoint of the Share Increase Plan by the Controlling Shareholder and 
Its Concerted Parties (January 18, 2025), and the Announcement on Implementation Completion (April 9, 2025). 
In addition to the above plan, CETHIK disclosed a share increase plan on October 17, 2023, which was 
completed on January 9, 2024, while CETC Inves tment disclosed a plan on January 17, 2024, completed on 
February 6, 2024. For details, refer to the announcements published on the CNINFO website: the Announcement on 
Completion of Share Increase Plan by the Controlling Shareholder (January 10, 2024) and the Announcement on 
Completion of Share Increase Plan by Concerted Parties of the Controlling Shareholder (February 7, 2024). 
3. The Company's share repurchase plan and its implementation progress. 
                                             Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                    
202 
Based on the firm confidence in the Company's future development prospects and the high recognition of its 
long-term value, the Chairman of the board proposed a share repurchase on October 18, 2024. The proposal was 
reviewed and approved at the 4 th Meeting of the 6 th Board of Directors on December 9, 2024, and th e 2024 2 nd 
Extraordinary General Meeting on December 25, 2024, through the Share Repurchase Plan Proposal. The company 
is authorized to repurchase a portion of its domestically issued RMB ordinary shares (A -shares) via centralized 
bidding on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. The total repurchase amount shall not exceed RMB 2.5 billion (inclusive) 
and shall be no less than RMB 2.0 billion (inclusive), with a maximum repurchase price of RMB 40 per share 
(inclusive). Funding sources include the company 's own capita l and a dedicated share repurchase loan. The 
repurchase period shall not exceed 12 months from the date of shareholder approval. The repurchased shares will 
be canceled to reduce registered capital. For details, refer to the announcements published on October 19, December 
10, and December 26, 2024: Announcement on the Chairman of the board's Share Repurchase Proposal, Resolution 
of the Fourth Meeting of the Sixth Board of Directors, Announcement on the Share Repurchase Plan, Resolution of 
the 2024 Second Extraordinary General Meeting, and Share Repurchase Report. 
On December 26, 2024, the Company completed its first repurchase of 4,003,019 shares via a dedicated 
securities account through centralized bidding, representing 0.0434% of the total shares outstand ing. The highest 
and lowest transaction prices were RMB 31.50/share and RMB 31.06/share, respectively, with a total share value 
of RMB 125,613,283.27 (excluding fees). 
As of the market close on March 31, 2025, the Company has implemented the share repurcha se through the 
dedicated securities account for share repurchases via centralized bidding, cumulatively repurchasing 40,504,219 
shares, which represents 0.4387% of the Company's current total issued share capital. The highest transaction price 
was RMB32.70 per share, and the lowest transaction price was RMB27.53 per share. The total transaction amount 
was RMB1,235,479,288.81 (excluding transaction fees). 
The Company strictly complies with regulatory requirements, follows lawful procedures, and discloses 
repurchase progress announcements within the first three trading days of each month. For details, refer to the 
Announcement on the First Share Repurchase published on December 27, 2024, on the CNINFO website, and the 
monthly Announcement on Share Repurchase Progress. 
 
XVII. Significant Events of the Company's Subsidiaries 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
                                             Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                                    
203 
Matters Relating to Steady Promotion of the Spin -off of HikRobot to be Listed on the SZSE ChiNext 
Market 
On March 7, 2023, Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd . (hereinafter referred to as "HikRobot") received Notice on 
Accepting the Application Documents for the Initial Public Offering of Shares and Listing on the SZSE ChiNext 
Market of Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. (SZSE Listing Review [2023] No. 252) issued by Shenzhen Stock Exchange, 
and SZSE considered that application documents were completed and decided to accept. For details, please refer to 
the Announcement on the Application for the Initial Public Offering of Shares and Listing on the SZSE ChiNext 
Market of Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd., a Subsidiary of the Company, is Accepted by the SZSE (Announcement 
No.: 2023-008) published by the Company on CNINFO website (www.cninfo.com.cn) on March 8, 2023. Shenzhen 
Stock Exchange issued the Inquiry Letter on the Revi ew of Application Documents for the Initial Public Share 
Offering of Shares and Listing on the SZSE ChiNext Market of Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. (Inquiry Letter (2023) 
No. 010121) on March 30, 2023, and HikRobot has submitted the Reply to the Inquiry Lett er on the Review of 
Application Documents for the Initial Public Share Offering of Shares and Listing on the SZSE ChiNext Market of 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. on May 17, 2023. Shenzhen Stock Exchange issued the Second Inquiry Letter on the 
Review of Application Documents for the Initial Public Share Offering of Shares and Listing on the SZSE ChiNext 
Market of Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. (Inquiry Letter (2023) No. 010218) on June 30, 2023, and HikRobot has 
submitted the Reply to the Second Inquiry Letter on  the Review of Application Documents for the Initial Public 
Share Offering of Shares and Listing on the SZSE ChiNext Market of Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. on July 27, 
2023. Shenzhen Stock Exchange issued the Review Opinions Implementation Letter for the Ap plication of 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. for the Initial Public Offering of Shares and Listing on the ChiNext Board (Review 
Letter (2024) No. 010010) on January 15, 2024, and subsequently announced Hikrobot 's submission of the Reply 
to the Review Opinions Letter from the Application Documents Review Center for the Initial Public Offeringof 
Shares and Listing on the ChiNext Board of Hangzhou Hikrobot Co., Ltd. on January 2, 2025. 
 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
204 
Section VII Changes in Shares and Information about Shareholders 
I.  Changes in Share Capital  
1. Table of Changes in Share Capital 
Unit: Share 
 
Before the change Changes in the period (+, -) After the change 
Shares Ratio New Shares 
Issued 
Bonus 
share 
Share 
transferred 
from capital 
reserve 
Others Sub-total Shares Ratio 
1. Shares subject to conditional restriction(s) 222,167,673 2.38%    -94,639,161 -94,639,161 127,528,512 1.38% 
1) State holdings          
2) Shares held by state-owned corporates           
3) Shares held by other domestic investors 222,031,673 2.38%    -94,503,161 -94,503,161 127,528,512 1.38% 
Including: held by domestic corporations 
         
held by domestic individuals 222,031,673 2.38%    -94,503,161 -94,503,161 127,528,512 1.38% 
4) Shares held by overseas investors 136,000 0.00%    -136,000 -136,000 0 0.00% 
Including: held by overseas corporations          
held by overseas individuals 136,000 0.00%    -136,000 -136,000 0 0.00% 
2. Shares without restriction 9,108,433,258 97.62%    -2,763,444 -2,763,444 9,105,669,814 98.62% 
1) RMB ordinary shares 9,108,433,258 97.62%    -2,763,444 -2,763,444 9,105,669,814 98.62% 
2) Domestically listed foreign shares          
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
205 
 
Before the change Changes in the period (+, -) After the change 
Shares Ratio New Shares 
Issued 
Bonus 
share 
Share 
transferred 
from capital 
reserve 
Others Sub-total Shares Ratio 
3) Foreign shares listed overseas          
4) Others          
3. Total 9,330,600,931 100.00%    -97,402,605 -97,402,605 9,233,198,326 100.00% 
 
Reason for the changes in share capital  
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
(1) During the reporting period, the number of senior managers ' locked-up shares changed due to senior managers ' increase in shareholdings and leadership re-
election of the Company. For details, please refer to the table from "V . Information about Directors, Supervisors, and Senior Management" in Section IV "Corporate 
Governance" of this report. 
(2) During the reporting period, the Company terminated the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and repurchased and canceled all relevant restricted shares. 
On April 18, 2024 and May 10, 2024, the 20th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Directors, the 18th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Supervisors 
and 2023 Annual General Meeting reviewed and approved Proposal on Terminating the Implementation  of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and Repurchasing and 
Canceling Relevant Restricted Shares, and agreed the company terminate the implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and repurchase and cancel all restricted 
stocks granted but not yet unlocked. The number of restricted stocks proposed to be repurchased and cancelled this time totals 97,402,605 shares, accounting for 1.0439% 
of the company's total share capital (9,330,600,931 shares) before the repurchase and cancellation. On August 15, 2024, th e aforementioned restricted stocks have 
completed the repurchase and cancellation procedures at the Shenzhen Branch of China Securities Depository and Clearing Corpo ration Limited. As of the reporting 
day, the Company does not have any outstanding restricted shares. 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
206 
For details, please refer to  the Announcement on Terminating the Implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and Repurchasing and Canceling Relevant 
Restricted Shares and the Announcement on the Completion of Repurchase and Cancellation of Restricted Stocks Related to the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan published 
by the Company on www.cninfo.com.cn on April 20, 2024 and August 17, 2024. 
 
Approval for changes in share capital 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
On April 18, 2024 and May 10, 2024, the 20th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Directors, the 18th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Supervisors 
and 2023 Annual General Meeting reviewed and approved Proposal on Terminating the Implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and Repu rchasing and 
Canceling Relevant Restricted Shares, and agreed the company terminate the implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and repurchase and cancel all restricted 
stocks granted but not yet unlocked. 
 
Transfer for changes in share capital 
√Applicable □Inapplicable 
 On August 15, 2024, the Company completed the repurchase and cancellation procedures for 97,402,605 restricted shares under its 2021 Restricted Share 
Incentive Plan through China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (Shenzhen Branch). Consequently, the total share capital was adjusted from 
9,330,600,931 shares to 9,233,198,326 shares. As of the reporting day, the Company does not have any outstanding restricted shares.  
 
Effects of changes in share capital on the basic earnings per share ("EPS"), diluted EPS, net assets per share attributable to common shareholders of the 
Company, and other financial indexes over the last year and last period 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
207 
 
Other contents that the Company considers necessary or required by the securities regulatory authorities to disclose 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
2. Changes in Restricted Shares 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
Unit: Share 
Name of shareholder Opening restricted 
shares 
Increased in current 
period 
Vested in current 
period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Unlock date 
Grantees of restricted 
share incentive plan 
(consolidated) 
97,402,605 0 97,402,605 0 Equity Incentive Restricted Shares 
August 15, 2024, 2021 
Restricted Stock Plan 
repurchased and canceled 
Hu Yangzhong 116,727,358 270,000 0 116,997,358 Restricted shares for senior executives 
In accordance with 
relevant regulations on 
the management of shares 
held by senior executives. 
Xu Peng 11,466 0 0 11, 466 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Wang Qiuchao 26,250 0 0 26,250 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Pan Jia 40,969 0 0 40,969 Restricted shares for senior executives 
He Hongli 248,625 0 0 248,625 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Pu Shiliang  176,925 0 0 176,925 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Guo Xudong 15,855 22,500 0 38,355 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Xu Ximing 80,925 7,500 0 88,425 Restricted shares for senior executive 
Huang Fanghong 257,125 22,500 0 279,625 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Jin Yan 188,250 0 0 188,250 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Cai Changyang 82,125 0 0 82,125 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Qu Liyang 11,812 3,938 0 15,750 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Wu Weiqi 6,514,342 2,171,447 0 8,685,789 Restricted shares for senior executives 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
208 
Name of shareholder Opening restricted 
shares 
Increased in current 
period 
Vested in current 
period Closing restricted shares Note for restricted shares Unlock date 
Xu Lirong 227,250 75,750 0 303,000 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Jin Duo  82,125 27,375 0 109,500 Restricted shares for senior executives 
Bi Huijuan  177,075 59,025 0 236,100 Restricted shares for senior executives  
Total 222,271,082 2,660,035 97,402,605 127,528,512 -- -- 
Note:  
1) Executives who are grantees under incentive restricted shares scheme, his/her holding incentive restricted shares are counted within the "Grantees of restricted 
share incentive plan (consolidated)" on the second row. 
2) The total amount of vested shares of the " Grantees of restricted share incentive plan (consolidated)" in the current reporting period is 97,402 ,605 shares, which 
results from the repurchase and cancellation of restricted shares granted but not unlocked of the Company's 2021 Restricted Stock Plan in the current period (including 
the repurchase and cancellation of the corresponding restricted shares held by the above senior executives). 
3) The chairman of the board, Hu Yangzhong and senior managers, Guo Xudong, Xu Ximing, Huang Fanghong increased their holdings of the Company. These shares 
are classified as restricted shares for senior managers in accordance with the relevant rules. Qu Liyang, Wu Weiqi, Xu Lirong, and Jin Duo retired upon expiration of 
their terms, while Bi Huijuan resigned from her executive position during the reporting period. All shares held by them are f ully classified into executive restricted 
shares within 6 months of her resignation in accordance with relevant equity restriction rules. 
4) For newly appointed directors, supervisors, and senior management during the reporting period, their initial restricted shares are the number of shares classified as 
restricted shares at the time of appointment in accordance with relevant equity restriction rules. 
II. Issuance and Listing of Securities  
1. Securities (exclude Preferred Share) Issued during the Reporting Period 
□Applicable √Inapplicable 
 
2. Explanation on Changes in Total Share Capital, the Structure of Shareholders, and the Structure of Assets and Liabilities of the Company 
√ Applicable □ Inapplicable 
On August 15, 2024, the company completed the repurchase and cancellation procedures for 97,402,605 restricted shares under its 2021 Restricted Share Incentive 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
209 
Plan through China Securities Depository and Clearing Corporation Limited (Shenzhen Branch). Consequently, the total share capital was adjusted from 9,330,600,931 
shares to 9,233,198,326 shares. As of the reporting day, the Company does not have any outstanding restricted shares.  
After the completion of the above matters, there has been no significant change in the shareholder structure, asset and liability structure of the Company. 
 
3. Existent Shares Held by Internal Staff of the Company 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
III. Particulars about the Shareholders and Actual Controller 
1. Total Number of Shareholders and Their Shareholdings 
Unit: Share 
Total number of common shareholders at the 
end of the reporting period 
401,004 
The total number of ordinary shareholders at the end of the previous month before 
the disclosure date of the annual report 
340,254 
Particulars about shares held by shareholders with a shareholding percentage over 5% or the Top 10 of them (Excluding shares lent through refinancing) 
Name of shareholder 
Nature of 
shareholder 
Share-holding 
percentage 
(%) 
Total ordinary 
shares held at the 
end of the reporting 
period 
Increase/decreas
e during the 
reporting period 
The number 
of shares held 
with trading 
restrictions 
The number of shares 
held without trading 
restrictions 
Pledged or marked or frozen 
Status Amount 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group 
Ltd. 
Domestic state-
owned 
corporation 
36.93% 3,410,150,909  6,271,400  0  3,410,150,909  Pledged 50,000,000  
Gong Hongjia 
Overseas 
individual 
10.42% 962,504,814  0  0  962,504,814  Pledged 231,058,200  
Hangzhou Weixun Equity 
Investment Partnership 
(Limited Partnership) 
Domestic non-
state-owned 
corporation 
4.88% 450,795,176  0  0  450,795,176  Pledged 22,200,000  
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
210 
Shanghai Perseverance 
Asset Management 
Partnership (Limited 
Partnership) - 
Perseverance Adjacent 
Mountain 1 Yuanwang 
Fund 
Other 4.18% 385,950,050  -41,049,950  0  385,950,050  - - 
CETC Investment 
Holdings Co., Ltd. 
Domestic state-
owned 
corporation 
2.66% 245,484,168  13,176,265  0  245,484,168  - - 
Hangzhou Pukang Equity 
Investment Partnership 
(Limited Partnership)  
Domestic non-
state-owned 
corporation 
1.98% 182,510,174  0  0  182,510,174  Pledged 51,980,000  
The 52nd Research 
Institute at China 
Electronics Technology 
Group Corporation 
Domestic state-
owned 
corporation 
1.96% 180,775,044  0  0  180,775,044  - - 
Hu Yangzhong  
Domestic 
individual 
1.69% 155,996,477  360,000  116,997,358  38,999,119  - - 
Central Huijin Investment 
Co., Ltd. 
Domestic state-
owned 
corporation 
0.70% 64,700,691  0  0  64,700,691  - - 
Industrial and 
Commercial Bank of 
China Co., Ltd. - Huatai 
Pinebridge CSI 300 ETF 
Securities Investment 
Fund 
other 0.69% 63,851,856  35,931,100  0  63,851,856  -   
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
211 
Explanation on associated relationship or 
concerted actions among the above-mentioned 
shareholders: 
Among the above shareholders, China Electronics Technology HIK Group Ltd., CETC Investment Holdings Co., Ltd., and the 52nd Research 
Institute at China Electronics Technology Group Corporation are acting-in-concert parties. Mr. Gong Hongjia and Hangzhou Pukang Equity 
Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership) are acting-in-concert parties. Mr. Hu Yangzhong and Hangzhou Weixun Equity Investment 
Partnership (Limited Partnership) are acting-in-concert parties. Except for these, the Company does not know whether the other shareholders 
are related parties or whether they are acting-in-concert parties in accordance with the Administrative Measures for Acquisitions of Listed 
Companies. 
Shareholding details of the top 10 unrestricted shareholders (excluding shares lent out through securities lending arrangements and management locked-in shares). 
Name of shareholder 
Number of shares without trading 
restrictions held at the period-end 
Type of shares 
Type Number 
China Electronics Technology HIK Group Co., Ltd. 3,410,150,909  RMB ordinary shares 3,410,150,909  
Gong Hongjia 962,504,814  RMB ordinary shares 962,504,814  
Hangzhou Weixun Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership) 450,795,176  RMB ordinary shares 450,795,176  
Shanghai Perseverance Asset Management Partnership (Limited 
Partnership) - Perseverance Adjacent Mountain 1 Yuanwang Fund 
385,950,050  RMB ordinary shares 385,950,050  
CETC Investment Holdings Co., Ltd. 245,484,168  RMB ordinary shares 245,484,168  
Hangzhou Pukang Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership) 182,510,174  RMB ordinary shares 182,510,174  
The 52nd Research Institute at China Electronics Technology Group 
Corporation 
180,775,044  RMB ordinary shares 180,775,044  
Central Huijin Investment Co., Ltd. 64,700,691  RMB ordinary shares 64,700,691  
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Co., Ltd. - Huatai Pinebridge 
CSI 300 ETF Securities Investment Fund 
63,851,856  RMB ordinary shares 63,851,856  
Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Ltd.(HKSCC) 49,563,620  RMB ordinary shares 49,563,620  
Explanation on associated relationship and 
concerted actions among Top 10 shareholders 
holding shares without trading restrictions, and 
among Top 10 shareholders and Top 10 
shareholders holding shares without trading 
restrictions 
Among the above shareholders, China Electronics Technology HIK Gr oup Co., Ltd., CETC Investment Holdings Co., Ltd., and the 52 nd 
Research Institute at China Electronics Technology Group  Corporation are acting-in-concert parties. Mr. Gong Hongjia and Hangzhou 
Pukang Equity Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership) are acting-in-concert parties. Hangzhou Weixun Equity Investment Partnership 
(Limited Partnership) and Mr. Hu Y angzhong, chairman of the board, are acting-in-concert parties. Except for these, the Company does not 
know whether the other shareholders are related parties or whether they are acting-in-concert parties in accordance with the Administrative 
Measures for Acquisitions of Listed Companies. 
 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
212 
Details of share lending activities through securities lending arrangements by shareholders holding more than 5% of shares, top 10 shareholders, and top 10 holders 
of unrestricted circulating shares. 
√ Applicable□ Inapplicable 
Unit: shares  
Details of share lending activities through securities lending arrangements by shareholders holding more than 5% of shares, top 10 shareholders, and top 10 
holders of unrestricted circulating shares. 
Name of shareholder 
Period-beginning common 
account and credit account 
holdings 
Period-beginning 
refinancing lending shares 
that have not yet been 
returned 
Period-end common account 
and credit account holdings 
Period-end refinancing lending 
shares that have not yet been 
returned 
Shares Percentage Shares Percentage Shares Percentage Shares Percentage 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Co., Ltd. - 
Huatai Pinebridge CSI 300 ETF Securities Investment 
Fund 
27,920,756 0.30% 15,900 0.00% 63,851,856 0.69% 0 0.00% 
 
Any changes of the Company's top 10 common shareholders or top 10 non-restricted common shareholders were due to refinancing, lending/repayment issues compared 
with the previous period? 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
Any of the Company's top 10 common shareholders or top 10 non-restricted common shareholders conducted any agreed buy-back in the reporting period? 
□ Yes √ No    
No such case during the current reporting period.  
 
2. Particulars about Controlling Shareholder of the Company 
Nature of the controlling shareholder: Central State-owned 
Type of the actual controller: Corporation 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
213 
Name of controlling 
shareholder 
Legal Representative 
/People in charge Date of establishment Organization code Business scope 
China Electronics Technology 
HIK Group Ltd. 
Chen Zongnian November 29, 2002 9133000014306073XD 
Industrial investment; R&D of environmental protection products, network 
products, intelligent products and electronic products; technology transfer, 
technical services, manufacturing and sales; business consulting services, 
rental services of self-owned real estate; import and export businesses.  
Shares held by the controlling 
shareholder in other listed 
companies through controlling or 
holding during the reporting 
period 
Directly holds 47.16% shares of domestic listed company Phoenix Optical Co. Ltd., and directly holds 13.50% shares of domestic listed company Anbang 
Save-guard Group Co., Ltd. and indirectly holds 17. 73% shares of domestic listed company Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. (China Electronics 
Technology HIK Group Ltd. holds 36.93% shares of the Company and the Company holds 48.00% shares of Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd). 
Change of the controlling shareholder during the reporting period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
The Company's controlling shareholder has not changed during the reporting period.
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
214 
3. Particulars about the Company's Actual Controller & Concerted Parties 
Nature of the actual controller: Central state-owned assets management agency 
Type of the actual controller: Corporation 
Engaged in the construction of national major electronic information system projects, as well as the research, development, production, and 
sales of equipment, civil electronic information software, materials, components, complete machines, system integration, and related 
common technologies. 
Name of the 
actual 
controller 
Legal 
Representative  
/People in charge 
Date of 
establishment 
Organization 
code Business scope 
China Electronics 
Technology Group 
Corporation 
Wang Haibo February 25, 
2002 
91110000710929498G  
Engaged in the construction of national major electronic 
information system projects, as well as the research, 
development, production, and sales of equipment, civil 
electronic information software, materials, components, 
complete machines, system integration, and related 
common technologies. 
 
Shares held by the 
actual controlling 
shareholder in 
other listed 
companies 
through 
controlling or 
holding during the 
reporting period 
China Electronics Technology Group Corporation is the actual controller of 18 domestic listed companies including Sun 
Create Electronic Co., Ltd, CETC Digital Technology Co., Ltd, CETC Cyberspace Security Technology Co., Ltd., CETC 
Putian Technology Co., Ltd., Tai'ji Computer Corporation Limited, GLARUN Technology Co., Ltd. , Phoenix Optics Co., 
Ltd., Chengdu Spaceon Electronics Co.,Ltd., CETC Chip Technology Inc., Hebei Sinopack Electronic Technology Co., 
Ltd., Eastern Communications Co.,Ltd., Eastcompeace Technology Co.,Ltd., Nanjing Potevio Telecommunications Co., 
Ltd., Chengdu Siwi Science and Technology Co., Ltd., Nanjing Guobo Electronics Co., Ltd., Hangzhou EZVIZ Network 
Co., Ltd., Nanjing Les Information Technology Co., Ltd., Beijing E-hualu Information Technology Co., Ltd. and etc. 
Change of the actual controller during the reporting period 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
No such change during the reporting period.  
 
The ownership and controlling relationship between the actual controller of the Company and the Company is detailed 
as follows: 
 
 
The actual controller controls the Company through trust or other asset management methods 
□ Applicable √Inapplicable 

                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
215 
 
4. The Company's Controlling Shareholder or the Largest Shareholder and its Concerted Action Person's 
Cumulative Pledged Shares Account for 80% of the Company's Shares Held by Them 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
5. Particulars about Other Corporate Shareholders with Shareholding Proportion over 10% 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
6. Particulars on Shareholding Decrease Restrictions for the Controlling Shareholders, Actual Controller, 
Restructurer or Other Committing Parties 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
 
IV. The Specific Implementation of Share Repurchase during the Reporting Period 
Implementation progress of share repurchase 
√ Applicable □Inapplicable 
Disclosure 
Date 
Planned 
repurchase 
amount of 
shares  
Proportion to 
total share 
capital 
Planned 
amount of 
repurchase 
fund  
Repurchase 
period 
Use of 
repurchase 
Amount of 
repurchased 
shares 
(share) 
The number of 
repurchased 
shares as a 
proportion of 
the underlying 
stock covered 
by the share 
incentive 
scheme 
December 10, 
2024 
Calculated 
based on that 
the repurchase 
price shall not 
exceed RMB40 
per share. The 
amount shall 
not exceed 
62,500,000 
shares and not 
less than 
50,000,000 
share, and the 
final result is 
subject to the 
actual 
repurchase.  
Calculated 
based on that 
the repurchase 
price shall not 
exceed RMB40 
per share. The 
repurchased 
portion of 
shares shall not 
exceed 0.68% 
and not less 
than 0.54%, 
and final result 
is subject to the 
actual 
repurchase.  
Shall not 
exceed 
RMB2.5 billion 
(inclusive) and 
not less than 
RMB 2 billion 
(inclusive)  
December 25, 
2024 – 
December 24, 
2025 
Cancel and 
reduce 
registered 
capital in 
accordance 
with law 
10,000,219  Inapplicable 
Note: The number of shares repurchased presented in the table reflects the actual repurchased shares as of the close of 
trading on December 31, 2024. 
 
Based on the firm confidence in the Company 's future development prospects and the high recognition of it s long-
term value, the Chairman of the board proposed a share repurchase on October 18, 2024. The proposal was reviewed and 
approved at the 4th Meeting of the 6th Board of Directors on December 9, 2024, and the 2024 2 nd Extraordinary General 
Meeting on December 25, 2024, through the Share Repurchase Plan Proposal. The Company is authorized to repurchase 
a portion of its domestically issued RMB ordinary shares (A -shares) via centralized bidding on the Shenzhen Stock 
Exchange. The total repurchase amount shall not exceed RMB 2.5 billion (inclusive) and shall be no less than RMB 2.0 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
216 
billion (inclusive), with a maximum repurchase price of RMB 40 per share (inclusive). Funding sources include the 
Company's own capital and a dedicated share repurchase loan. The repurchase period shall not exceed 12 months from the 
date of shareholder approval. The repurchased shares will be canceled to reduce registered capital. For details, refer to the 
announcements published on October 19, December 10, and December 26, 2024: Announcement on the Chairman of the 
board's Share Repurchase Proposal, Resolution of the Fourth Meeting of the Sixth Board of Directors, Announcement on 
the Share Repurchase Plan, Resolution of the 2024 Second Extraordinary General Meeting, and Share Repurchase Report. 
On December 26, 2024, the Company completed its first repurchase of 4,003,019 shares via a dedicated securities 
account through centralized bidding, representing 0.0434% of the total sha res outstanding. The highest and lowest 
transaction prices were RMB 31.50/share and RMB 31.06/share, respectively, with a total share value of RMB 
125,613,283.27 (excluding fees). 
As of the close of March 31, 202 5, the Company had cumulatively repurchased 40,504,219 shares through the 
dedicated securities account, accounting for 0.4387% of the total shares outstanding. The highest and lowest transaction 
prices were RMB 32.70/share and RMB 27.53/share, respectively, with a total share value of RMB 1,235,479,288.81 
(excluding fees). 
The Company strictly complies with regulatory requirements, follows lawful procedures, and discloses repurchase 
progress announcements within the first three trading days of each month. For details, refer to the Announcement on the 
First Share Repurchase published on December 27, 2024, on the CNINFO website, and the monthly A nnouncement on 
Share Repurchase Progress. 
 
Implementation progress of reduce holdings of repurchased shares by means of centralized bidding  
□Applicable√ Inapplicable
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
217 
Section VIII Information of Preferred Shares 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable 
There is no preferred share existed for the Company during the current reporting period. 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
218 
Section IX Bonds 
□ Applicable √ Inapplicable
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
219 
Section X Financial Report 
Audit Report 
Audit Opinion Standard unqualified audit opinion 
Audit Report sign-off Date April 17, 2025 
Audit Institution Name Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Certified Public Accountants LLP 
Audit Report Number Deloitte Auditors' Report (Audit) No. 25- P04523 
Certified Public Accounts Name Chen yan, Liu ying 
 
To all shareholders of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.: 
1. Audit Opinion 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
(hereinafter referred to as "Hikvision" or "The Group"), including consolidated and parent company's balance sheet as of 
December 31, 2024, consolidated and parent company's income statement, cash flow statement and statement of changes 
in owners' equity of 2024 as well as relevant financial notes to financial statements. 
In our opinion, the financial statements annexed have been prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards for 
Business Enterprises in all material respects and they present fairly the consolidated and parent company 's fin ancial 
position of Hikvision as of December 31, 202 4 and consolidated and parent company's financial performance and cash 
flows of 2024. 
2. Basis of Opinion 
We have conducted our audit in accordance with the Auditing Standards for Chinese Certified Public Accountants. 
"Responsibilities of Certified Public Accountants for Financial Statements Audit" in the audit report further states our 
responsibilities under the standards. As per the code of ethics of Chinese certified public accountants, we are independent 
from Hikvision and have implemented other responsibilities as required by the code of ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have acquired is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 
3. Key Matters 
Key matters are matte rs we deem the most significant to the financial statements audit for this year based on our 
professional judgment. These matters are handled based on the financial statements audit as a whole and the audit opinion 
formed accordingly. We don't present opinions separately on these matters. We confirm that the following matters are key 
matters to be communicated through in the audit report. 
 
(1) Recognition of Sales Revenues 
 Description: 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
220 
As shown in Note (V) 4 5, the operating revenue in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year 
ended December 31, 2024 is RMB92,495,525,118.30. The product sales revenue, a key performance indicator, reaches 
RMB87,408,184,677.06, accounting for 94.50% of the operating revenue, which is a significant ind icator of the Group 
and has a significant influence on results of business operations. The product sales revenue include different sales models 
such as product domestic sales and product export sales by domestic companies and the overseas sales of overseas  
subsidiaries, and the revenue recognition is complicated. Therefore, we regard the occurrence of product sales revenue as 
a key audit matter. 
 
Audit Measures: 
Main audit procedures that we perform for the aforesaid key audit matters include: 
(1) Understanding and evaluating design and implementation of key internal control in relation to revenue recognition, 
and testing the effectiveness of its operation; 
(2) For revenues under different sales models, selecting a sample to check the sales contract, reviewing its m ain 
transaction terms, evaluating whether revenue recognition complies with requirements of accounting policies of the 
Group and the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises;  
(3) Analyzing revenues and gross profits based on product types, to understand whether there are abnormal fluctuations 
in the revenues and gross profits for the year, and conducting a test of details for identified specific transactions, 
through systematic analysis of revenue data, and reviewing relevant supporting documents; 
(4) Selecting sample(s) from product sales revenues recorded for the year, checking invoices, sales contracts or orders, 
shipping orders, signature forms, and other supporting documents; for the sample(s) of income under the export model 
of the selected domestic comp anies, additional inspections will be made to the customs declaration record and 
shipment record. 
 
(2) Provision for Credit Loss of Accounts Receivable 
Description: 
As disclosed in Note (V) 4 to the consolidated financial statements of the Group, as of December 31, 2024, the balance 
of accounts receivable amounted to RMB 41,824,083,460.37, and the balance of provision for credit losses of accounts 
receivable amounted to RMB3, 913,954,724.95. The book value of the Group's accounts receivable is relatively high, and 
the provision for credit loss of accounts receivable has a significant impact on the financial statements. As shown in Note 
(III) 11.2, Note (III) 13 and Note (III) 3 5 of the financial statements, the Group makes provisions for credit losses for 
accounts receivable at an amount equivalent to expected credit losses during the entire duration. For accounts receivable 
with significant individual amount and when the debtor has major financial difficulties, etc., the Group recognizes its credit 
losses based on individual assets, and classifies other accounts receivable into different combinations based on common 
credit risk characteristics and calculates expected credit losses on a portfolio basis. 
For accounts receivable classified into portfolios, the Group uses impairment matrix to determine the expected credit 
loss provision for accounts receivable. The expected credit loss provision ratio for each portfolio is determined based on 
the Group's historical overdue ratio and default and with reference to the forward-looking information of the industry. The 
accounting estimates above are subject to a high level of uncertainties. Therefore, we identify the recognition of credit loss 
provision for accounts receivable on a portfolio basis as a key audit matter. 
 
Audit Measures: 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
221 
Main audit procedures that we perform for the aforesaid key audit matters include: 
(1) Understanding and evaluating design and implementation of key internal con trol in relation to expected credit loss 
provision for accounts receivable by the Group, and testing the effectiveness of its operation; 
(2) Understanding the Group's accounting policies for expected credit loss on accounts receivable; for the model credit 
loss provision for accounts receivable on a portfolio basis, the following main procedures were performed 
-Assessing the rationality of measurement method by using impairment matrix model, and the rationality of the key 
parameters and assumptions used in the impairment matrix model, including classification of different portfolios, 
classification of stage, forward-looking adjustment, etc.; 
- Obtaining the historical default data used by the Group 's management in determining the historical loss rate of 
accounts receivable, and evaluating the accuracy thereof; 
- Selecting samples to test the accuracy of the classification of portfolio and stage by the Group's management; 
- Recalculating the expected credit loss provision based on default loss percentage. 
4. Other Information 
Management of Hikvision shall be responsible for other information. Other information includes the information 
covered in the annual report, excluding the financial statements and our audit report. 
Our audit opinion on the financial statements does not cover other information and we do not express any form of 
authentication conclusion on other information.  
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read other information and to consider 
whether other information is significantly misstated or materially inconsistent with the financial statements or the 
information we learned during the audit. 
Based on the works we have performed, if we determine that there is a material misstatement in other information, 
we should report the fact. In this respect, we have nothing to report. 
5. Responsibility of the Management and Governance for the Financial Statements 
The management of Hikvision is responsible for the preparatio n of financial statements in accordance with 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises to achieve fair presentation, and design, implementation and maintenance 
of necessary internal control to enable the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error.  
When preparing the financial statements, the management is responsible for assessing the going -concern ability of 
Hikvision, disclosing issues related to going-concern as applicable, and applying going-concern assumptions, unless the 
management plans to liquidate Hikvision, terminate operation or has no other realistic choice.  
The governance is responsible for supervising financial reporting processes of Hikvision. 
6. Responsibility of Certified Public Accountants on Audit of the Financial Statements 
Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance as to whether the overall financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue audit report that contain audit opinions. Reasonable assurance is 
a high level of assurance, but could not guarantee that an audit performed in accordance with the Auditing Standards can 
always figure out any existing material misstatements. Misstatements may be caused by fraud or error. Misstateme nt is 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
222 
generally considered to be material if it is reasonably expected that the misstatement, alone or aggregated, may affect the 
users' financial decisions based on the financial statements. 
In performing the audit in accordance with the Auditing Standards, we applied professional judgment and maintained 
professional skepticism. Meanwhile, we also perform the following duties:  
(1) Identify and evaluate the risk of material misstatement of financial statements due to fraud or error; design and 
implement audit procedures to cope with these risks, and obtain adequate and appropriate audit evidence as the basis 
for expressing audit opinions. As fraud may involve collusion, forgery, willful omission, misrepresentation or 
override of internal control, the risk of not discovering a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of 
not discovering a material misstatement due to error. 
(2) Understand the internal control related to auditing as a way to design appropriate audit procedures.  
(3) Evaluate the properness of accounting policy selected by the management and the rationality of accounting estimate 
and related disclosure. 
(4) Reach a conclusion on whether the going concern assumption adopted by the management is appropriate. Meanwhile, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, reach a conclusion on whether there are material uncertainties in the events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubts on Hikvision's ability to continue as a going concern. If we reach a 
conclusion that there is a material uncertainty, the Auditing Standards require us to call the attention of the users of 
the report to the relevant disclosures in the financial statements in the audit report. If the disclosure is insufficient, we 
should issue modified audit opinions. Our conclusion is based on the information available up to the date of the audit 
report. However, future events or conditions may result in the failure of Hikvision to continue as a going concern. 
(5) Evaluate the overall presentation (including the disclosure), structure and conten t of the financial statements and 
evaluate whether the financial statements fairly reflect the related transactions and events. 
(6) Obtain adequate and appropriate audit evidence on the financial information of entity or business activities of 
Hikvision so as to express audit opinions on the financial statements. We are responsible for directing, supervising 
and executing the audit on the Group, and assume full responsibility for the audit opinions. 
We communicated with the governance about the scope of the audit, the schedule and major audit findings, including 
the notable shortcomings of internal control identified during the auditing.  
We also provide statement to the governance on the independence-related work ethics we follow, and communicate 
with the governance on all relations and other matters that might be reasonably deemed to influence our independence as 
well as relevant precautionary measures (as applicable).  
We determine which of the matters we communicated with the governance are of the greatest importance to the audit 
of financial statements of the current period so as to make them key matters. We describe the matters in the audit report. 
We decide not to co mmunicate on such matters in the audit report unless the laws and regulations forbid the public 
disclosure of such matters, or, in rare circumstances, if the negative consequence of communication of matters in the audit 
report is reasonably expected to exceed the benefit of the public interest.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
223 
On December 31, 2024 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31, 2024 On December 31, 2023(Restated) 
Current Assets:    
Cash and bank balances (V)1   36,271,488,337.03     49,638,158,662.54   
Derivative financial assets (V)2   26,775,923.93   37,380.00 
Notes receivable  (V)3   2,722,596,142.46   2,606,071,375.74 
Accounts receivable (V)4 37,910,128,735.42   35,816,573,511.44   
Receivables for financing (V)6 2,291,648,244.05 1,594,219,832.62 
     Prepayments  (V)7 664,602,593.01  508,151,405.92 
     Other receivables (V)8 531,344,606.50    571,912,035.93   
     Inventories (V)9 19,110,711,958.11   19,211,444,296.82   
   Contract assets (V)5 985,822,785.69 1,173,312,415.20 
Non-current assets due within one year (V)10 894,327,647.82  1,079,721,006.23 
Other current assets (V)11 1,071,066,653.10   961,593,616.75 
Total Current Assets   102,480,513,627.12   113,161,195,539.19   
Non-current Assets:     
Long-term receivables (V)12 380,453,188.09 538,698,618.76 
Long-term equity investment (V)13   1,527,223,390.79   1,151,104,887.85 
Other non-current financial assets (V)14   472,000,082.76   472,184,937.66 
Fixed assets (V)15 15,063,752,296.49     11,508,312,342.17   
Construction in progress (V)16   4,699,473,381.21   4,307,651,074.46 
Right-of-use assets (V)17   530,138,023.79   521,061,396.66 
     Intangible assets (V)18   1,828,287,135.99   1,810,476,551.45 
     Goodwill (V)19   312,165,129.29   311,353,640.88 
   Long-term deferred expenses (V)20   162,841,758.91   177,361,533.93 
     Deferred tax assets (V)21 2,206,191,157.06 1,978,373,012.15 
     Other non-current assets (V)22 2,353,160,984.64 2,920,349,344.39 
Total Non-current Assets  29,535,686,529.02   25,696,927,340.36   
Total Assets  132,016,200,156.14    138,858,122,879.55   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 31, 2024 
Consolidated Balance Sheet-continued 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31, 2024 On December 31, 2023 (Restated) 
Current Liabilities:    
     Short-term borrowings (V)24 1,031,895,812.62  2,118,952,026.06  
   Derivative financial liabilities (V)25 1,874,341.64 38,079,755.04  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
224 
    Notes payable  (V)26 1,197,128,746.56   1,163,687,279.58  
   Accounts payable (V)27 20,185,303,107.69  19,163,485,888.09  
     Contract liabilities (V)28 3,353,943,054.24 2,977,990,775.40  
     Payroll payable (V)29 5,666,415,834.10    6,120,471,280.78   
 Taxes payable (V)30 1,535,936,096.02   1,622,550,187.86   
 Other payables (V)31 3,528,359,044.48 3,911,612,841.06  
Including: dividend payables (V)31.2   186,793.11   253,957,413.29 
 Non-current liabilities due within one year (V)32 767,030,688.91   5,814,660,214.96  
    Other current liabilities (V)33 377,117,275.65 1,481,222,044.19  
Total Current Liabilities  37,645,004,001.91 44,412,712,293.02 
Non-current Liabilities:    
   Long-term borrowings (V)34   5,119,185,000.00   8,940,122,961.01  
   Lease liabilities (V)35 375,432,749.68 344,005,866.13  
   Long-term payables    9,780,220.80   15,526,169.45 
     Provisions (V)36   305,250,049.71   213,084,038.31  
     Deferred income (V)37   874,512,073.53   966,259,592.34  
Deferred tax liabilities (V)21 112,711,363.52    129,866,978.18  
Other non-current liabilities (V)38   74,029,948.84   1,672,933,103.20  
Total Non-current Liabilities  6,870,901,406.08 12,281,798,708.62 
Total Liabilities  44,515,905,407.99 56,694,511,001.64 
Owners' Equity    
     Share capital (V)39   9,233,198,326.00   9,330,600,931.00  
     Capital reserves (V)40 6,181,644,265.06    7,864,903,763.52  
     Less: Treasury shares (V)41   310,044,296.12   2,737,987,226.55  
   Other comprehensive income (V)42 (111,510,486.21) 44,667,516.16  
     Surplus reserves (V)43   4,715,460,312.00   4,715,460,312.00  
     Retained earnings (V)44 60,959,912,942.15 57,136,620,244.01  
Total Owners' Equity Attributable to Owner 
of the Company  80,668,661,062.88 76,354,265,540.14  
     Minority equity  6,831,633,685.27    5,809,346,337.77  
Total Owners' Equity  87,500,294,748.15 82,163,611,877.91  
Total Liabilities and Owners' Equity  132,016,200,156.14   138,858,122,879.55 
 
The accompanying notes form part of the financial statements.  
The financial statements were signed by the following: 
Legal Representative: Hu Yangzhong; Person in charge of the accounting work: Jin Yan; 
Person in Charge of the Accounting Department: Zhan Junhua 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
225 
On December 31, 2024 
 
Balance Sheet of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31, 2024 On December 31, 2023 
Current Assets:    
Cash and bank balances    22,813,537,991.27   36,366,610,163.17 
Notes receivable     226,470,150.02   214,433,654.20 
Accounts receivable (XVI)1 25,733,620,869.95 19,016,777,665.77 
Receivables for financing    50,535,530.46   44,650,466.33 
      Prepayments     234,363,667.93   53,649,708.62 
Other receivables (XVI)2    4,405,567,174.71   3,061,246,174.74 
Including: dividend receivables (XVI)2.2 - 41,423,446.39 
      Inventories    143,812,782.98   199,049,157.84 
    Contract assets    18,901,004.71   10,490,078.61 
Non-current assets due within one year     106,879,332.17   157,086,525.60 
Other current assets    1,720,538,797.37   1,676,541,190.03 
Total Current Assets  55,454,227,301.57 60,800,534,784.91 
Non-current Assets:    
 Long-term accounts receivable     1,204,913,267.41   3,633,588,076.55 
 Long-term equity investment (XVI)3   9,486,970,485.01   8,681,387,048.75 
Other non-current financial assets    307,130,117.76   338,767,764.24 
 Fixed assets    3,415,196,347.85   3,392,288,906.32 
Construction in progress    79,844,913.85   17,377,463.50 
Right-of-use assets    84,298,386.18   124,744,108.19 
Intangible assets    173,965,691.99   96,021,508.25 
Long-term deferred expenses    37,381,601.80   39,437,083.99 
Deferred tax assets  298,084,602.58 322,869,398.52 
Other non-current assets    62,355,873.60   146,216,939.94 
Total Non-current Assets  15,150,141,288.03 16,792,698,298.25 
Total Assets  70,604,368,589.60 77,593,233,083.16 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
226 
On December 31, 2024 
Balance Sheet of the Parent Company - continued 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes On December 31, 2024 On December 31, 2023 
Current Liabilities:    
  Short-term borrowings    200,075,833.33   - 
    Accounts payable    1,184,469,965.39     1,050,518,329.53   
    Contract liabilities    191,877,808.28     218,875,534.52   
Payroll payable    3,247,226,282.17   3,644,152,847.04 
Taxes payable  574,239,387.19 944,807,901.59  
Other payables    635,628,127.73     738,553,487.03   
Non-current liabilities due within one year    210,197,535.44     1,523,328,743.28   
   Other current liabilities  44,720,937.37   1,134,059,460.70   
Total Current Liabilities  6,288,435,876.90 9,254,296,303.69  
Non-current Liabilities:    
   Long-term borrowings    1,827,000,000.00     5,887,380,000.00   
   Lease liabilities    46,955,785.74     66,330,125.99   
     Provisions    107,030,168.03     97,586,882.51   
   Deferred Income    365,813,574.47     410,243,110.75   
Other non-current liabilities  -   1,642,792,335.93   
Total Non-current Liabilities    2,346,799,528.24      8,104,332,455.18 
Total Liabilities  8,635,235,405.14 17,358,628,758.87  
Owners' Equity    
    Share capital    9,233,198,326.00     9,330,600,931.00   
    Capital reserves    3,849,752,890.09     5,776,371,174.04   
    Less: Treasury shares    310,044,296.12     2,737,987,226.55   
    Surplus reserves    4,715,460,312.00     4,715,460,312.00   
    Retained earnings  44,480,765,952.49 43,150,159,133.80  
Total Owners' Equity  61,969,133,184.46 60,234,604,324.29  
Total Liabilities and Owners' Equity  70,604,368,589.60 77,593,233,083.16  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
227 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Consolidated Income Statement 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the current 
period 
Amount for the prior 
period (Restated) 
I. Total Revenue (V)45 92,495,525,118.30    89,341,177,610.40 
  Less: Total operating costs (V)45     51,953,857,912.21     49,732,768,547.57    
Business taxes and surcharges (V)46    692,285,927.36      704,641,378.69   
        Selling expenses (V)47 12,051,218,102.62 10,746,788,076.01 
        Administrative expenses (V)48 3,095,939,643.92     2,770,781,203.45 
Research and Development (R&D) expenses (V)49 11,864,013,392.27   11,392,948,404.47   
        Financial expenses (V)50 (114,817,493.16) (749,800,283.79) 
        Including: Interest expenses     391,404,187.13      457,605,119.59   
                  Interest income     878,035,430.32     1,067,169,946.60   
  Add: Other Income (V)51    2,653,682,810.87   2,559,523,242.99    
 Investment income  (V)52    187,021,018.77      63,302,304.25   
      Including: Investment gains (Losses) in associated 
enterprise and joint-venture enterprise     30,668,990.87   (29,966,477.85)  
 Gains (losses) from changes in fair values (V)53    47,759,102.43      22,679,257.89   
 Credit impairment gains (losses) (V)54 (1,068,789,505.74) (879,922,773.25) 
 Impairment gains (losses) of assets (V)55 (445,914,387.59) (463,382,275.12) 
 Asset disposal income (losses)  (14,539,975.31) (5,674,511.78) 
II. Operating Profit   14,312,246,696.51 16,039,575,528.98   
Add: Non-operating income (V)56 63,737,582.35    87,573,120.04   
Less: Non-operating expenses (V)57 32,490,638.86    27,933,016.91   
III. Total Profit   14,343,493,640.00 16,099,215,632.11   
Less: Income tax expenses (V)58 1,202,471,579.49      943,313,868.90   
IV . Net Profit    13,141,022,060.51 15,155,901,763.21      
(I) Classification by continuous operation    
(a) Net profit on continuous operation   13,141,022,060.51 15,155,901,763.21 
(b) Net loss on terminated operation  - - 
(II) Classification by attribution of ownership    
(a) Net profit attributable to owners of parent company  11,977,327,023.54 14,107,726,276.26 
(b) Profit or loss attributable to minority shareholders  1,163,695,036.97 1,048,175,486.95 
V . Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Income Tax (V)42 (285,156,327.33) 183,798,707.05  
Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the 
Company, net of tax  (156,178,002.37) 87,254,674.97  
(I) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or 
loss  - - 
(II) Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods  (156,178,002.37) 87,254,674.97 
1. Exchange differences arising on conversion of financial 
statements denominated in foreign currencies  (156,178,002.37) 87,254,674.97 
Other comprehensive income attributable to minority interests, 
net of tax  (128,978,324.96) 96,544,032.08  
VI. Total Comprehensive Income  12,855,865,733.18 15,339,700,470.26 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
228 
Item Notes Amount for the current 
period 
Amount for the prior 
period (Restated) 
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent 
company  11,821,149,021.17 14,194,980,951.23 
Total comprehensive income attributable to minority 
shareholders  1,034,716,712.01 1,144,719,519.03 
VII. Earnings per Share    
      (I) Basic earnings per share (RMB/share) (XVII)2 1.297 1.520 
(II) Diluted earnings per share (RMB/share) (XVII)2 1.297 1.520 
In the current year, for business combinations under common control, the net loss realized by the combined party prior 
to the combination was: RMB 295,677.15, while the net profit realized by the combined party in the previous year was: 
RMB 218,576.25. 
 
 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
229 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Income Statement of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the 
current period 
Amount for the prior 
period (Restated) 
I. Total Revenue (XVI)4 24,148,421,603.36    25,547,794,166.85   
Less: Total operating Cost (XVI)4 4,483,355,526.93 4,557,434,594.05    
    Business taxes and surcharges     288,929,873.36      315,430,824.67   
    Selling expenses  3,729,196,616.91 3,866,288,945.36 
      Administrative expenses     885,742,669.64      911,095,185.51   
        Research and Development (R&D) expenses     7,164,260,715.25      7,500,668,818.36   
        Financial expenses  (460,591,487.54)  (642,865,974.82)  
Including : Interest expenses      134,657,024.82      161,668,592.71   
                Interest income     578,070,079.98      865,373,583.65   
Add: Other income      1,671,483,871.95      1,634,201,874.22   
 Investment income  (XVI)5    428,959,177.60       499,611,155.15 
       Including: Investment gains(Losses) in associated 
enterprise and joint-venture enterprise     26,003,020.74   (36,401,170.84) 
  Gains (losses) from changes in fair values  (31,637,646.48)    2,475,310.72   
  Credit impairment gains (losses)  (114,296,061.01)  (98,343,814.70)  
  Impairment gains (losses) of assets  (98,433.91)    2,652,989.00   
  Asset disposal income (losses)   (7,215,529.29)    1,072,329.19   
II. Operating profit  10,004,723,067.67 11,081,411,617.30 
   Add: Non-operating income     8,474,270.33      15,820,653.67   
   Less: Non-operating expenses     1,565,470.96      1,821,528.02   
III. Total profit  10,011,631,867.04     11,095,410,742.95 
   Less: Income tax expenses  526,990,722.95     543,355,227.07    
IV . Net profit  9,484,641,144.09 10,552,055,515.88  
V . Other comprehensive income, net of income tax  - - 
VI. Total comprehensive income  9,484,641,144.09 10,552,055,515.88  
  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
230 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement  
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the 
current period 
Amount for the 
prior period 
(Restated) 
I. Cash Flows from Operating Activities:    
   Cash receipts from sale of goods or rendering of services  98,512,386,004.95 93,594,226,079.25 
         Receipts of tax refunds  4,198,239,416.84 3,991,363,648.68 
   Other cash receipts relating to operating activities (V)59(1) 1,760,845,198.13 1,806,494,187.72 
      Sub-total of ash inflows from operating activities  104,471,470,619.92 99,392,083,915.65 
    Cash payments for goods purchased and services received  56,858,146,890.75 52,008,690,617.35 
    Cash paid to and on behalf of employees  20,140,688,302.14 17,978,448,952.57 
         Payments of various types of taxes  6,679,316,991.20 6,494,801,736.38 
    Other cash payments relating to operating activities (V)59(1) 7,529,226,413.10 6,287,932,888.30 
      Sub-total of cash outflows from operating activities  91,207,378,597.19 82,769,874,194.60 
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities (V)60(1) 13,264,092,022.73 16,622,209,721.05 
II. Cash Flows from Investing Activities:    
        Cash receipts from recovery of investments (V)59(2) 3,002,416,092.15 4,688,412,447.25 
        Cash receipts from investment income  67,333,430.58 67,123,840.33 
        Net cash receipts from disposals of fixed assets, intangible assets and 
other long-term assets  18,893,652.30 30,738,410.30 
   Other cash receipts relating to investing activities (V)59(2) 84,419,763.14 121,237,455.42 
   Sub-total of cash inflows from investing activities  3,173,062,938.17 4,907,512,153.30 
     Cash payments to acquire or construct fixed assets, intangible assets 
and other long-term assets (V)59(2) 4,665,742,203.72 4,047,816,024.05 
        Cash payments to acquire investments  (V)59(2) 3,046,421,031.55 4,803,003,467.44 
        Net cash paid for obtaining subsidiaries and other business units  (V)60(2) 8,440,700.00 43,992,651.82 
      Sub-total of cash outflows from investing activities  7,720,603,935.27 8,894,812,143.31 
Net Cash Flows from Investing Activities  (4,547,540,997.10) (3,987,299,990.01) 
III. Cash Flows from Financing Activities:    
        Cash receipts from capital contributions  149,000,000.00 72,570,000.00 
       Including: cash receipts from capital contributions from minority 
owners of subsidiaries  149,000,000.00 72,570,000.00 
     Cash receipts from borrowings  7,214,406,837.74 11,032,367,859.61 
     Other cash receipts from financing activities (V)59(3) 2,007,056.47 5,000,000.00 
      Sub-total of cash inflows from financing activities  7,365,413,894.21 11,109,937,859.61 
  Cash repayments of borrowings  17,073,833,780.12 6,174,788,332.85 
        Cash payments for distribution of dividends or profits or settlement 
of interest expenses  8,993,845,346.34 7,083,299,395.46 
Including : Dividends and profits paid by subsidiaries to minority 
shareholders  327,176,023.62 194,009,629.27 
        Other cash payments relating to financing activities (V)59(3) 3,376,723,553.38 997,281,629.42 
       Sub-total of cash outflows from financing activities  29,444,402,679.84 14,255,369,357.73 
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities  (22,078,988,785.63) (3,145,431,498.12) 
IV . Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash 
Equivalents  (12,487,215.49) 113,365,015.34 
V . Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (V)60(1) (13,374,924,975.49) 9,602,843,248.26 
     Add: Opening balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (V)60(3) 49,427,967,355.78 39,825,124,107.52 
VI. Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (V)60(3) 36,053,042,380.29 49,427,967,355.78 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
231 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Cash Flow Statements of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item Notes Amount for the 
current period 
Amount for the 
prior period 
I. Cash Flows from Operating Activities::    
Cash receipts from the sale of goods and the rendering of services  20,183,364,498.46 33,798,989,613.55 
Receipts of tax refunds  1,437,778,163.22 1,484,786,334.10 
Other cash receipts relating to operating activities  904,245,500.67 1,003,715,734.81 
   Sub-total of cash inflows from operating activities  22,525,388,162.35 36,287,491,682.46 
Cash payments for goods acquired and services received  5,072,134,963.21 5,141,659,409.02 
Cash paid to and on behalf of employees  7,948,378,555.58 7,743,837,239.02 
Payments of various types of taxes  3,393,746,907.86 2,810,558,011.92 
Other cash payments relating to operating activities  4,427,556,481.06 4,018,574,345.87 
Sub-total of cash outflows from operating activities  20,841,816,907.71 19,714,629,005.83 
Net Cash Flows from Operating Activities (XVI)8(1) 1,683,571,254.64 16,572,862,676.63 
II. Cash Flows from Investing Activities:    
Cash receipts from recovery of investments  4,114,000,000.00 876,506,386.63 
Cash receipts from investment income  449,576,192.54 559,285,378.22 
Net cash receipts from disposals of fixed assets, intangible assets and 
other long-term assets  20,287,904.27 59,072,378.14 
Other cash receipts relating to investing activities  74,971,218,190.24 66,769,850,832.31 
Sub-total of cash inflows from investing activities  79,555,082,287.05 68,264,714,975.30 
Cash payments to acquire or construct fixed assets, intangible assets 
and other long-term assets  521,185,569.34 319,040,089.07 
Cash payments to acquire investments  4,529,752,620.00 3,569,972,354.33 
       Other cash payments relating to investing activities  73,178,198,874.61 70,028,455,422.77 
     Sub-total of cash outflows from investing activities  78,229,137,063.95 73,917,467,866.17 
Net Cash Flows from Investing Activities  1,325,945,223.10 (5,652,752,890.87) 
III. Cash Flows from Financing Activities    
Cash receipts from borrowings  1,650,000,000.00 5,481,410,000.00 
      Other cash receipts relating to financing activities  13,326,445,447.45 11,356,826,127.58 
      Sub-total of cash inflows from financing activities  14,976,445,447.45 16,838,236,127.58 
Cash repayments of borrowings  6,785,400,600.00 473,648,200.00 
       Cash payments for distribution of dividends or profits or settlement of 
interest expenses  8,424,721,408.99 6,590,228,195.38 
      Other cash payments relating to financing activities  16,338,194,784.59 12,107,588,596.15 
     Sub-total of cash outflows from financing activities  31,548,316,793.58 19,171,464,991.53 
Net Cash Flows from Financing Activities  (16,571,871,346.13) (2,333,228,863.95) 
IV . Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash 
Equivalents  (2,076,162.95) (3,379,613.83) 
V . Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (XVI)8(1) (13,564,431,031.34) 8,583,501,307.98 
  Add: Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents (XVI)8(2) 36,354,702,554.38 27,771,201,246.40 
VI. Closing Balance of Cash and Cash Equivalents (XVI)8(2) 22,790,271,523.04 36,354,702,554.38 
                                                                                                Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
232 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Owners' Equity 
    Unit: RMB 
Items 
2024 
Owner's equity attributable to the parent company 
Minority 
interests 
Total owners' 
equity Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury 
share 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
Surplus reserve Retained profits 
I. Closing balance of the prior 
year   9,330,600,931.00     7,864,903,763.52     2,737,987,226.55     44,667,516.16     4,715,460,312.00     57,136,620,244.01     5,809,346,337.77   82,163,611,877.91   
  Due to the changes in 
accounting policies - - - - - - - - 
II. Opening balance of current 
year    9,330,600,931.00     7,864,903,763.52     2,737,987,226.55     44,667,516.16     4,715,460,312.00     57,136,620,244.01     5,809,346,337.77   82,163,611,877.91   
III. Increase or decrease in the 
current period (97,402,605.00) (1,683,259,498.46) (2,427,942,930.43) (156,178,002.37) - 3,823,292,698.14 1,022,287,347.50 5,336,682,870.24 
(I) Total comprehensive 
income  - - - (156,178,002.37) - 11,977,327,023.54 1,034,716,712.01 12,855,865,733.18 
(II) Owners' contributions 
and reduction in capital (97,402,605.00) (1,683,259,498.46) (2,583,787,098.43) - - - 222,426,339.63 1,025,551,334.60 
1. Capital contribution 
from shareholders - - - - - - 149,000,000.00 149,000,000.00 
2. Share-based payment 
recognized in owners' 
equity 
- 782,354,064.37 - - - - 83,074,508.22 865,428,572.59 
3. Others (97,402,605.00) (2,465,613,562.83) (2,583,787,098.43) - - - (9,648,168.59) 11,122,762.01 
(III) Profit distribution - -   155,844,168.00   - - (8,154,034,325.40) (234,855,704.14) (8,544,734,197.54) 
1. Transfer to surplus 
reserves - - - - - - - - 
2. Distributions to 
shareholders - - -  - - (8,309,878,493.40) (234,855,704.14) (8,544,734,197.54) 
3. Others - -   155,844,168.00   - - 155,844,168.00 - - 
IV . Closing balance of the 
current period   9,233,198,326.00   6,181,644,265.06   310,044,296.12   (111,510,486.21)   4,715,460,312.00   60,959,912,942.15 6,831,633,685.27 87,500,294,748.15 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
233 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Owners' Equity-continued 
Unit: RMB  
Items 
2023 (Restated) 
Owner's equity attributable to the parent company 
Minority 
interests 
Total owners' 
equity Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury 
share 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
Surplus reserve Retained profits 
I. Closing balance of the prior year   9,430,920,624.00   10,141,153,435.32   5,316,033,650.24   (42,587,158.81)  4,715,460,312.00 49,460,240,986.49 4,580,999,418.82 72,970,153,967.58 
  Due to the changes in accounting 
policies - - - - - 182,975.56 1,391,408.52  1,574,384.08 
II. Opening balance of current year    9,430,920,624.00    10,141,153,435.32     5,316,033,650.24   (42,587,158.81)   4,715,460,312.00   49,460,423,962.05 4,582,390,827.34  72,971,728,351.66 
III. Increase or decrease in the 
current period  (100,319,693.00)  (2,276,249,671.80)  (2,578,046,423.69)  87,254,674.97 - 7,676,196,281.96 1,226,955,510.43 9,191,883,526.25 
(I) Total comprehensive income  - - - 87,254,674.97 - 14,107,726,276.26 1,144,719,519.03 15,339,700,470.26 
(II) Owners' contributions and 
reduction in capital  (100,319,693.00)    
(2,276,249,671.80)   (2,609,860,174.19) - - - 243,095,948.04 476,386,757.43 
1. Capital contribution from 
shareholders - - - - - -    72,570,000.00    72,570,000.00 
2. Share-based payment 
recognized in owners' equity - 169,682,759.53  - - - -    37,934,118.40 207,616,877.93 
3. Others  (100,319,693.00)  (2,445,932,431.33) (2,609,860,174.19)  - - - 132,591,829.64 196,199,879.50 
(III) Profit distribution - - 31,813,750.50 - - (6,431,529,994.30) (160,859,956.64) (6,624,203,701.44) 
1. Transfer to surplus reserves - - - - - - - - 
2. Distributions to 
shareholders - -  (91,514,124.10)  - - (6,554,752,952.30) (160,746,296.99) (6,623,985,125.19) 
3. Others - - 123,327,874.60 - - 123,222,958.00 (113,659.65) (218,576.25) 
IV . Closing balance of the current 
period   9,330,600,931.00   7,864,903,763.52  2,737,987,226.55   44,667,516.16   4,715,460,312.00   57,136,620,244.01 5,809,346,337.77 82,163,611,877.91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
234 
 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
Statement of Changes in Owners' Equity of the Parent Company 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2024 
Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury share Surplus reserve Retained profits Total owners' equity 
I. Closing balance of the prior year   9,330,600,931.00     5,776,371,174.04     2,737,987,226.55     4,715,460,312.00     43,150,159,133.80     60,234,604,324.29   
  Due to the changes in accounting policies - - - - - - 
II. Opening balance of current year    9,330,600,931.00     5,776,371,174.04     2,737,987,226.55     4,715,460,312.00     43,150,159,133.80     60,234,604,324.29   
III. Increase or decrease in the current period (97,402,605.00) (1,926,618,283.95) (2,427,942,930.43) - 1,330,606,818.69 1,734,528,860.17 
(I) Total comprehensive income  - - - - 9,484,641,144.09 9,484,641,144.09 
(II) Owners' contributions and reduction in capital (97,402,605.00) (1,926,618,283.95) (2,583,787,098.43) - - 559,766,209.48 
1. Capital contribution from shareholders - - - - - - 
2. Share-based payment recognized in owners' equity -   652,558,986.86   - - - 652,558,986.86 
3. Others (97,402,605.00) (2,579,177,270.81) (2,583,787,098.43) - - (92,792,777.38) 
(III) Profit distribution - -   155,844,168.00   - (8,154,034,325.40) (8,309,878,493.40) 
1. Transfer to surplus reserves - - - - - - 
2. Distributions to shareholders - - - - (8,309,878,493.40) (8,309,878,493.40) 
3. Others - -   155,844,168.00   - 155,844,168.00 - 
IV . Closing balance of the current period   9,233,198,326.00   3,849,752,890.09   310,044,296.12     4,715,460,312.00   44,480,765,952.49 61,969,133,184.46 
Item 
2023 
Share capital Capital reserves Less: Treasury share Surplus reserve Retained profits Total owners' equity 
I. Closing balance of the prior year   9,430,920,624.00   8,264,384,780.30     5,316,033,650.24     4,715,460,312.00   39,030,437,901.96 56,125,169,968.02 
  Due to the changes in accounting policies - - - - (909,206.34)  (909,206.34)  
II. Opening balance of current year    9,430,920,624.00     8,264,384,780.30     5,316,033,650.24     4,715,460,312.00     39,029,528,695.62     56,124,260,761.68   
III. Increase or decrease in the current period (100,319,693.00) (2,488,013,606.26) (2,578,046,423.69) - 4,120,630,438.18  4,110,343,562.61  
(I) Total comprehensive income  - - - - 10,552,055,515.88  10,552,055,515.88  
(II) Owners' contributions and reduction in capital (100,319,693.00) (2,488,013,606.26) (2,609,860,174.19) - - 21,526,874.93 
1. Capital contribution from shareholders - - - - - - 
2. Share-based payment recognized in owners' equity -   73,548,755.72   - - -   73,548,755.72   
                                                                                                Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
235 
3. Others (100,319,693.00) (2,561,562,361.98) (2,609,860,174.19) - - (52,021,880.79) 
(III) Profit distribution - - 31,813,750.50 - (6,431,425,077.70) (6,463,238,828.20) 
1. Transfer to surplus reserves - - - - - - 
2. Distributions to shareholders - - (91,514,124.10) - (6,554,752,952.30) (6,463,238,828.20) 
3. Others - - 123,327,874.60 - 123,327,874.60 - 
IV . Closing balance of the current period   9,330,600,931.00     5,776,371,174.04     2,737,987,226.55     4,715,460,312.00   43,150,159,133.80  60,234,604,324.29  
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
236 
I. Basic Information about the Company 
1. Overview of the Company 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter refe rred to as "Company" or "the Company" or 
"Hikvision"), is a Sino-foreign equity joint venture company, formerly known as "Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology 
Ltd", established on November 30, 2001 in Hangzhou upon the approval letter of Hangzhou High -tech No. 604 [2001] 
issued by Hangzhou High-tech Industrial Development Zone Management Committee. On June 25, 2008, with approval 
of document No. 598 [2008] issued by the MOFCOM (The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China), the 
Company was renamed as "Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd.", headquartered in Hangzhou. On May 28, 
2010, the Company was listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. 
The main business activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as "the Group") include the 
manufacture and sale of security equipment, network equipment and intelligent equipment, the manufacture and wholesale 
of auto parts and accessories, the sale of electronic products, the provision of construction projects, technical se rvices, 
technology development, technical consulting, software development, information system integration services, data 
processing and storage support services, etc. 
2. Date of Approval for Issuance of Financial Statements 
The Company's consolidated financial reports were approved for issuance by the 5th meeting of the 6th session of the 
Board of Directors of the Company on April 17, 2025.  
 
II. Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements 
Basis of preparation of financial statements 
The Group have adopted the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises ("ASBE") and relevant provisions issued by 
the Ministry of Finance ("MoF"). In addition, the Group has disclosed relevant financial information in accordance with 
Information Disclosu re and Presentation Rules for Companies Offering Securities to the Public No. 15 － General 
Provisions on Financial Reporting (revised in 2023).  
 
Going concern 
The Group has evaluated its going concern for 12 months going forward starting from December 31, 2024, and there is no 
factor that may cast significant doubt on the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the financial 
statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
 
Bookkeeping base and valuation principles  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
237 
The Group measures the accounting elements in accordance with the accrual accounting basis. Except certain financial 
instruments are measured by fair value, these financial statements are prepared in accordance with the measurements basis 
of historical costs. If the ass et decreases in value, the provision for impairment of assets should be made according to 
relevant regulations. 
 
According to the historical cost measurement, the assets shall be measured as per the amount of cash or cash equivalent 
paid at the time of purchase, or the fair value of consideration paid for the purchase of such assets. The liabilities shall be 
measured in accordance with the amount of funds or assets actually received when undertaking current obligations, or the 
contract amount when undertaking the current obligations, or the amount of cash or cash equivalents required for paying 
back the debts in daily activities.  
 
The fair value is a price received by the market participants from selling asset or transferring liability during orderly 
transaction at the measurement date. No matter the fair value is observable or estimated by using valuation technique, the 
measured and disclosed fair value in the financial statement shall be determined on this basis.  
 
When measuring non -financial assets at fa ir value, the assets shall be measured considering the ability of market 
participants to use the assets for optimal use to generate economic benefits, or to sell the assets to other market participants 
to use the assets for optimal use to generate economic benefits. 
 
For the financial assets measured with transaction price at the initial recognition, and the use of valuation techniques 
involving unobservable inputs in the subsequent fair value measurement, the valuation technique is corrected in the 
valuation process in order to make the initial recognition results confirmed by valuation techniques equal to the transaction 
price. 
 
Based on the observable extent of the input value of the fair value, and the importance of such input value to the fair value 
measurement, the fair value measurement is divided into three levels:  
• Level 1: The input value is the unadjusted offer of the same assets or liabilities on active market acquired on measurement 
date;  
• Level 2: The input value is the input value of relevant assets or liabilities observable directly or indirectly in addition to 
level 1 input value;  
• Level 3: The input value is the non-observable input value of relevant assets or liabilities.  
III. Significant Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates 
Specific accounting policies and accounting estimates suggests:  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
238 
The Group has formulated specific accounting policies and accounting estimates for the method of determining materiality 
standards and the basis of selection, provision for credit losses on accounts receivable, provision for inventory depreciation, 
depreciation of fixed assets, and revenue recognition according to the actual production and operation characteristics. The 
significant judgements and accounting estimates and their key assumptions applied by the Group in identifying significant 
accounting policies are detailed in Notes (III), 35. 
1. Statement for Compliance with Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises (ASBE) 
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with ASBE, and present truly and completely, 
the Company's and consolidated financial position as of December 31, 2024; and the Company's and consolidated results 
of operations, and the Company's and consolidated changes in owners' equity, and the Company's and consolidated cash 
flows for 2024. 
2. Accounting Period  
The Group has adopted the calendar year as its accounting year from January 1st to December 31st each year.  
3. Business Cycle  
The business cycle refers to the period from purchase of assets used for processing to realization of cash or cash equivalents. 
The Group business cycle is usually 12 months.  
4. Functional Currency  
Renminbi ("RMB") is the currency in the primary economic environments in which the Company and its domestic 
subsidiaries are operated. The Company and its domestic subsidiaries take RMB as their functional currency.  Overseas 
subsidiaries of the Company determine their functional currency on the basis of the primary economic environment in 
which it operates. The Group adopts RMB to prepare its financial statements. 
5. Methodology for determining materiality criteria and basis for selection 
Item Materiality Criteria 
Significant single-item receivabls with bad debt provision Single amount accounts for 10% of accounts receivable balance 
Significant single-item contract assets with bad debt provision Single amount accounts for 10% of contract asset balance 
Significant construction in progress Single amount of investment of construction in progress accounts for 
2% of net assets balance 
Significant accounts payable, other payables, and contract 
liabilities aged over 1 year 
Accounts payable, other payables, and contract liabilities aged more 
than one year account for 5% of the balance of liabilities 
Significant non-wholly owned subsidiaries Minority interests representing 10% of consolidated shareholders' 
equity  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
239 
Significant joint ventures or associates 
Investment income of individual joint ventures/associates accounts for 
10% of consolidated net profit or the year-end balance of long-term 
equity investment in the enterprise accounts for 10% of the total 
consolidated assets 
Cash received or paid in connection with significant 
investment activities 
The amount of cash inflow or outflow from a single investing activity 
accounts for 10% of cash inflow or outflow from investing activities 
6. The Accounting Treatment of Business Combinations Involving Enterprises under Common Control and 
Business Combinations Not Involving Enterprises under Common Control 
Business combinations are classified into business combinations involving enterprises under common control and business 
combinations not involving enterprises under common control. 
 
6.1 Business combinations involving enterprises under common control 
 
A business combination involving enterprises under common control is a business combination in which all of t he 
combining enterprises are actual controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the combination, and that 
control is not transitory. 
 
Assets and liabilities obtained shall be measured at their respective carrying amounts as recorded by the combining entities 
at the date of the combination. The difference between the carrying amount of the net assets obtained and the carrying 
amount of the consideration paid for the combination is adjusted to the share premium in capital reserve. If the s hare 
premium is not sufficient to absorb the difference, any excess shall be adjusted against retained earnings. 
 
Costs that are directly attributable to the combination are charged to profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. 
 
6.2 Business combinations not involving enterprises under common control and goodwill 
 
A business combination not involving enterprises under common control is a business combination in which all of the 
combining enterprises are not actual controlled by the same party or parties before and after the combination. 
 
The cost of combination is the aggregate of the fair values, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred 
or assumed, and equity securities issued by the acquirer in exchange for control of the acquiree. If a business combination 
not under the common control is realized step by step through multiple transactions, the cost of the combination is the sum 
of the consideration paid on the purchase date and the fair value of the equity of the pur chase already held before the 
purchase date on the purchase date. The intermediary expenses incurred by the acquirer in respect of auditing, legal 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
240 
services, valuation and consultancy services, etc. and other associated administrative expenses attributable to the business 
combination are recognized in profit or loss when they are incurred. 
 
The acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, acquired by the acquirer in a business combination, 
that meet the recognition criteria shall be measured at fair value at the acquisition date. 
 
Where the cost of combination exceeds the acquirer's interest in the fair value of the acquiree's identifiable net assets, the 
difference is treated as an asset and recognized as goodwill, which is measure d at cost on initial recognition. Where the 
cost of combination is less than the acquirer's interest in the fair value of the acquiree's identifiable net assets, the acquirer 
firstly reassesses the measurement of the fair values of the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
and measurement of the cost of combination. If after that reassessment, the cost of combination is still less than the 
acquirer's interest in the fair value of the acquiree's identifiable net assets, the acquirer recognizes the remaining difference 
immediately into profit or loss for the current period. 
 
Goodwill arising on a business combination is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, and is presented 
separately in the consolidated financial statements.  
 
7. Criteria for determining control right and Preparation Method of Consolidated Financial Statements 
7.1 Criteria for determining control right 
 
Control right means that an investor may control an investee; the investor may participate in relevant activities of the 
investee to obtain variable rewards and also be able to use the control rights for the investee to influence its amount of 
returns. The Group will re -evaluate, if the change of the relevant facts and circumstances leading to the change of the 
relevant elements involved in the above definition of control.  
 
7.2 Preparation method of consolidated financial statements  
 
The scope of consolidated financial statements shall be confirmed based on the control. 
 
The merger of subsidiary starts from the Group obtaining the control power of the subsidiary, and terminates when the 
Group loses the control power of the subsidiary.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
241 
As for subsidiaries disposed by the Group, operating results and cash flows prior to th e disposal date (the date of losing 
control right) have been properly included in the consolidated profit statement and consolidated cash flow statement.  
For a subsidiary acquired through a business combination not involving enterprises under common control, the operating 
results and cash flows from the acquisition date (the date when control is obtained) are included in the consolidated income 
statement and consolidated statement of cash flows.  
 
No matter when the business combination occurs in the repor ting period, subsidiaries acquired through a business 
combination involving enterprises under common control are included in the Group's scope of consolidation as if they had 
been included in the scope of consolidation from the date when they first came un der the common control of the actual 
controlling party. Their operating results and cash flows from the beginning of the earliest reporting period are included 
in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of cash flows, as appropriate. 
 
The significant accounting policies and accounting periods adopted by the subsidiaries are determined based on the 
uniform accounting policies and accounting periods set out by the Company. 
 
All significant intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation. 
 
The portion of subsidiaries' equity that is not attributable to the Company is treated as minority interests and presented as 
"minority equity" in the consolidated balance sheet. The portion of net profits or losses of subsidiaries f or the period 
attributable to minority interests is presented as "minority interests" in the consolidated income statement below the "net 
profit" line item. 
 
When the amount of loss for the period attributable to the minority shareholders of a subsidiary e xceeds the minority 
shareholders' portion of the opening balance of owners' equity of the subsidiary, the excess amount are still allocated 
against minority interests. 
 
Acquisition of minority interests or disposal of interest in a subsidiary that does not  result in the loss of control over the 
subsidiary is accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the total owners' equity attributable to owner 
of the Company and minority equity are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative inte rests in the subsidiary. The 
difference between the amount by which the minority interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or 
received is adjusted to capital reserve under owners' equity. If the capital reserve is not sufficient to absorb the difference, 
the excess is adjusted against retained earnings. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
242 
In the case that the equity of the acquiree is obtained through multiple deals in stages to finally form the business 
combination not under the common control, the business combination shall be handled differently based on whether it is 
"package deal": where it is package deal, the Company accounts each deal as a deal to obtain the control. If the deal is not 
a "package deal", a deal where the control is obtained on the acquisition date will be subject to accounting. The acquiree's 
equity held before the acquisition date will be re -measured based on the fair value of the equity on the acquisition date 
and the difference between the fair value and book value will be included in the profit or loss in the current period. If the 
acquiree's equity held before the acquisition date involves any changes in the other comprehensive income or in any other 
owner's equity accounted by the equity method, then it is transferred to income for the per iod in which it belongs at the 
date of purchase. 
8. Joint Arrangement Classification and Joint Operation Accounting 
Joint arrangements include joint operation and joint ventures. Such classification is defined based on the rights and 
obligations of the joint parties in the joint arrangement, taking into account the structure and legal form of such 
arrangement and also the contractual provisions.  
 
The Groups investment in any joint venture is accounted by the equity method. See the details in Note (III) "18.3.2 Long-
term equity investment accounted under the equity method".  
 
9. Recognition Criteria of Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash comprises cash on hand and deposits that can be readily withdrawn on demand. Cash equivalents are the Group's 
short-term (Generally refers to due within three months from the purchase date), highly liquid investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
10. Conversion of Transactions and Financial Statements Denominated in Foreign Currencies.  
10.1 Transactions denominated in foreign currencies 
 
A foreign c urrency transaction is recorded, on initial recognition, by applying an exchange rate that approximates the 
actual spot exchange rate on the date of transaction; The exchange rate that approximates the actual spot exchange rate on 
the date of transaction is calculated according to the middle price of market exchange rate at the beginning of the month 
in which the transaction happened. 
 
At the balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are translated into [RMB] using the spot exchange rates at the 
balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising from the differences between the spot exchange rates prevailing at the 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
243 
balance sheet date and those on initial recognition or at the previous balance sheet date are recognized in profit or loss for 
the period, except for exchange differences related to a specific-purpose borrowing denominated in foreign currency that 
qualify for capitalization are capitalized as part of the cost of the qualifying asset during the capitalization period. 
 
When the consolidated f inancial statements include foreign operation(s), if there is foreign currency monetary item 
constituting a net investment in a foreign operation, exchange difference arising from changes in exchange rates are 
recognized as "exchange differences arising on conversion of financial statements denominated in foreign currencies " in 
other comprehensive income, and in profit and loss for the period upon disposal of the foreign operation. 
 
Foreign currency non-monetary items measured at historical cost are converted to the amounts in functional currency at 
the spot exchange rates on the dates of the transactions.  
 
10.2 Conversion of financial statements denominated in foreign currencies 
 
For the purpose of preparing the consolidated financial statements, financia l statements of a foreign operation are 
converted from the foreign currency into RMB using the following method: assets and liabilities on the balance sheet are 
translated at the spot exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date; shareholders' equity  items are converted at the 
spot exchange rates at the dates on which such items arose; all items in the income statement as well as items reflecting 
the distribution of profits are translated at exchange rates that approximate the actual spot exchange rates on the dates of 
the transactions; The difference between the converted assets and the aggregate of liabilities and shareholders' equity items 
is recognized into other comprehensive income and shareholders' equity. 
 
The foreign currency cash flows and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries adopt the exchange rate similar to the spot rate at 
the date of cash flows for conversion. The affected amount of cash and cash equivalents due to the change of exchange 
rate, as an ad justment item, shall be separately listed as "the impact of cash and cash equivalents due to the change of 
exchange rate" in the cash flow statement.  
 
The closing balances of the prior year and the actual amount of the prior year are presented at the conv erted amounts of 
the prior year's financial statements. 
 
On disposal of the Group's entire interest in a foreign operation, or upon a loss of control over a foreign operation due to 
disposal of certain interest in it or other reasons, the Group transfers t he accumulated exchange differences arising on 
conversion of financial statements of this foreign operation attributable to the owners' equity of the Company and presented 
under shareholders' equity, to profit or loss in the period in which the disposal occurs. 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
244 
 
In case of a disposal or other reason that does not result in the Group losing control over a foreign operation, but only a 
decrease in proportion of overseas business interests, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences arising 
on conversion of financial statements are re-attributed to minority interests and are not recognized in profit and loss under 
current period. For partial disposals of equity interests in foreign operations, which are associates or joint ventures, the 
proportionate shares of the accumulated exchange differences arising on conversion of financial statements of foreign 
operations is reclassified to profit or loss under current period. 
 
11. Financial Instruments 
The Group recognizes a financial asset or a financial liability when it becomes a party to a contract of financial instrument. 
 
For the purchase or sale of a financial asset in conventional manner, the asset to be received and the liability to be assumed 
will be recognized on the trading day, or the asset sold will be derecognized on the trading day. 
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured by fair value upon initial recognition (The method of determining 
the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities is described in the relate d disclosure of the basis of accounting 
and valuation principles in note (ii). For financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss, the 
relevant trading costs will be directly charged to profit and loss of the current perio d. For other types of financial assets 
and financial liabilities, the relevant trading costs will be booked into the initial recognition amount. Upon initial 
recognition of accounts receivable which have no material financing components or have not taken into consideration the 
financing components in contracts with a term not exceeding one year according to Accounting Standards for Business 
Enterprise No. 14 – Revenue ("Revenue Standard"), such initial amount is measured by the transaction price as defined 
under the Revenue Standard. 
 
Effective interest rate method refers to the method of calculating the amortized cost of financial asset or financial liability 
and apportioning interest income or interest expenses to each accounting period. 
 
Effective interest rate refers to the interest rate used for discounting the estimated future cash flows of a financial asset or 
a financial liability for an expected subsisting period into the balance of book value of the financial asset or the amortized 
cost of the financial liability. When determining the effective interest rate, the expected cash flows are estimated on the 
basis of considering all contractual terms of the financial asset or financial liability (such as early repayment, extended 
term, call option or other similar option) but without considering the expected credit loss. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
245 
The amortized cost of a financial asset or a financial liability refers to the initial recognition amount of such financial asset 
or financial liability, less the repaid amount of princip al, plus or minus the accrued amortized amount calculated by 
amortization of the difference between the initial recognition amount and the amount on maturity by using the effective 
interest rate method, and then deducts the accrued provision for losses (only applicable to financial assets). 
 
11.1 Classification, Confirmation and Measurement of Financial Assets  
 
After initial recognition, the Group will adopt amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, or fair value 
through profit and loss for subsequent measurement depending on different categories of financial assets. 
 
The Group will classify a financial asset into a financial asset measured at amortized cost if the contractual terms of the 
financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding and the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in 
order to collect contractual cash flows. Financial assets classified by the Group as financial asset measured by amortized 
cost include cash and cash equivalents, notes receivables and accounts receivable, other receivables, long-term receivables 
and other non-current assets. 
 
The Group will classify a financial asset into a financial asset measured by fair value through other comprehensive income 
if the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal 
and interest on the principal amount outstanding, and the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective 
is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets. This category of financial assets 
mainly includes financial assets with a maturity of more than one year from the date of acquisition and which are presented 
under other debt investments, financial assets maturing within one year (inclusive) from the balance sheet date and which 
are presented under non-current assets maturing within one year, as well as the notes receivable classified as fair value at 
the time of acquisition and their changes are included in other comprehensive income are listed in the receivables for 
financing, and for those have acquisition period within one year (including one year) are listed in other current assets. 
 
At the time of initial recognition, the Group may, on the basis of a single financial asset, irrevocably designate an 
investment in an equity instrument held for non -trading purpose recognized or without  consideration in a business 
combination of enterprises not under the same control as a financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income. 
This type of financial assets is presented as investment in other equity instruments.  
 
Financial assets which have satisfied one of the following conditions indicate that such financial assets are held for trading 
purpose by the Group: 
• The purpose of acquiring the relevant financial asset is mainly for sale in recent period. 
• At the time of initial rec ognition, the relevant financial asset is a part of an identifiable portfolio of financial 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
246 
instruments under collective management, and there is objective evidence showing a recent and actual existence of short-
term profitable mode.  
• The relevant financial assets are derivatives. 
 
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss include financial assets which are classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit and loss and financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss:  
• Financial assets which do not satisfy the conditions of being classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost 
or as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, they will be classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit and loss. 
• At the time of initial recognition, in order to eliminate or substantially reduce mismatch in accounting, the Group 
may irrevocably designate a financial asset as a financial asset measured at fair value with changes through profit and loss.  
 
Financial assets measured at fair value with changes recognized in profit or loss, other than derivative financial assets, are 
presented as trading financial assets. If such financial assets have a maturity of more than one year from the balance sheet 
date (or without a fixed maturity) and which are expected to be held for more than one year, they will be presented under 
other non-current financial assets.  
 
11.1.1 Financial assets measured at amortized cost 
 
Financial assets measured at amortized cost adopt the effective interest rate method for subsequent measurement according 
to amortized cost, the profit or loss when impairment occurs or upon derecognition will be accounted in profit and loss of 
the current period.  
 
The Group recognizes interest income by using effective interest rate method for financial assets measured at amortized 
cost. The Group determines interest income by multiplying the balance of book value of financial assets with the effective 
interest rate except under the following circumstances: 
• For acquired or generated financial assets which incurred credit impairment already, their interest income will be 
determined by using the amortized cost of such financial asset calculated with the credit adjusted effective interest rate.  
• For acquired or generated financial assets which have not incurred credit impairment but incur credit impairment in 
the subsequent period, the Group will determine their interest income by using the amortized cost of such financial assets 
multiplied with the effective interest rate in the subsequent period. If such financial asset ceases to have credit impairment 
due to improvement in credit risk in the subsequent period, then the Group should change to multiply the effective interest 
rate with the balance of book value of such financial asset instead to determine the interest income.  
  
11.1.2 Financial asset at fair value through other comprehensive income 
 
The impairment loss or profit, or interest income calculated by using the effective interest rate method, relating to financial 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
247 
asset at fair value through other comprehensive income should be accounted in the profit and loss of the current period, 
and other changes in fair value of such financial assets will be accounted in other comprehensive income. The amount 
charged by such financial asset to the profit and loss of each period is deemed to be equal to the amount which has been 
measured by amortized cost and charged to the profit and loss of each period. Upon derecognition of such financial asset, 
the accumulated profit or loss previously charged to other comprehensive income will be reversed from other 
comprehensive income and charged to profit and loss of the current period.   
 
For non-trading equity instrument investment designated at fair value through other comprehensive income, its changes 
in fair value will be recognized in other comprehensive income. Upon derecognition of such financial asset, the  
accumulated profit or loss charged to other comprehensive income will be reversed from other comprehensive income and 
charged to retained earnings. During the period when such investment in equity instruments for non -trading purpose are 
held by the Group,  the right to receive dividends by the Group has been established, and economic benefits related to 
dividends are likely to flow into the Group, and if the amount of dividends may be measured reliably, the dividend income 
is recognized and accounted in the profit and loss of the current period.  
 
11.1.3 Financial asset at fair value through profit and loss 
 
For financial asset at fair value through profit and loss, subsequent measurement will be calculated at fair value, the profit 
or loss arising from chan ges in fair value and the dividend and interest income relating to such financial asset will be 
accounted in the profit and loss of the current period.  
 
11.2 Impairment of Financial Assets 
 
For financial assets measured at amortized cost, financial assets that are classified as financial asset at fair value through 
other comprehensive income, lease receivables and contract assets, the Group will handle impairment on the basis of 
expected credit loss and recognize loss provision.  
 
The Group's consideration of contract assets, notes receivable and accounts receivable that are generated by transactions 
regulated by revenue standards and do not contain significant financing components or that do not consider financing 
components in contracts that are not more than one year old, as well as those lease receivables formed from transactions 
that are defined by the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 21-Leasing, the loss reserve shall be measured 
based on the amount of the expected credit loss during the entire duration.  
 
For other financial instruments, other than acquired or generated financial assets which have incurred credit impairment 
already, the Group will assess on each balance sheet date the changes in credit risk of the relevant financial instruments 
since initial recognition. If the credit risk of such financial asset has significantly increased after initial recognition, the 
Group will calculate its loss provision based on the amount equivalent to the expected credit loss for the entire subsisting 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
248 
period. If the credit risk of such financial asset since initial recognition has not increased significantly, the Group will 
calculate its loss provision a ccording to the expected credit loss amount of such financial asset for the next 12 months. 
The amount of increase or reversal in the provision for credit loss, apart from financial assets classified as financial asset 
at fair value through other comprehensive income, is accounted in the profit and loss of the current period. For financial 
asset classified as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the Group will recognize its credit loss 
provision in other comprehensive income and charge d the impairment loss or gain to the profit and loss of the current 
period, and will not decrease the book value of such financial asset presented in the balance sheet.  
 
The Group has calculated the loss provision equivalent to the expected credit loss amount for the entire subsisting period 
of the financial instrument in the preceding accounting period, but at the balance sheet date of the current period, such 
financial instrument is no longer under the condition of significant increase in credit risk sin ce initial recognition, the 
Group calculates the loss provision for such financial instrument on the balance sheet date of the current period according 
to an amount equivalent to the expected credit loss for the next 12 months, and the resulting loss provision reversal amount 
will be counted as impairment gain and booked into the profit and loss of the current period.  
  
11.2.1 Significant increase in credit risk 
 
The Group uses available and reasonable forward-looking information with justification, by comparing the default risk of 
the financial instrument at the balance sheet date with the default risk on the initial recognition date, to confirm whether 
the credit risk of the financial instrument has significantly increased after initial recognition. 
 
The Group considers the following factors when assessing whether the credit risk has significantly increased: 
(1) Whether a significant change has been caused to the internal price indicator due to changes in credit risk. 
(2) Whether the external credit rating of financial instrument has actual or expected significant changes. 
(3) Whether the actual or expected internal credit rating of the debtor has been downgraded.  
(4) Whether adverse changes have occurred in the business, finance or economic conditions which are expected to cause 
significant changes in the capability of the debtor to perform debt repayment obligations.  
(5) Whether actual or expected significant changes have occurred in the operating results of the debtor. 
(6) Whether significant adverse changes have occurred in the supervision, economic or technical environment in which 
the debtor operates. 
(7) Whether significant changes have occurred in the value of security pledged for the  debt or the quality of guarantee 
or credit enhancement provided by third parties. Such changes are expected to reduce the debtor 's economic 
motivation of repayment according to contractual term or influence the probability of default. 
(8) Whether significant changes have occurred in the economic motivation which will lower the expectation of 
repayment by the borrower according to the contractual term. 
(9) Whether significant changes have occurred in the expected performance and repayment behavior of the debtor. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
249 
Whether or not the credit risks increase significantly after the foregoing assessments, if any contractual payment for any 
financial instrument that overdue for over (including) 30 days, it indicates the credit risks of that financial instrument have 
increased significantly. 
 
On the balance sheet date, if the Group determines that the financial instrument only carries low credit risks, then it assumes 
that the credit risks of the financial instrument have not increased significantly since the initial recognition. If the risk of 
default on financial instruments is low, the borrower is highly able to perform its contractual cash flow obligations in the 
short term, and even if the economic situation and operating environment are adversely changed over a long period of time 
but not necessarily reducing the borrower 's performance of its contractual cash obligations, the financial instrument is 
considered as having a lower credit risk.  
 
11.2.2  Financial assets which have incurred credit impairment already 
 
When one or more events which will have adverse effect on the expected future cash flows from the financial asset of the 
Group have occurred, such financial asset will become a financial asset which have incurred credit impairment already. 
The evidence of credit impairment occurred in a financial asset includes the following observable information:  
(1) Material financial difficulties have occurred in the issuer or debtor; 
(2) Breach of contract by the debtor, such as default or overdue for the payment of interest or repayment of principal;  
(3) Due to economic or contractual considerations relating to financial difficulties of the debtor, the creditor has granted 
concession to the debtor under no other circumstances;  
(4) The debtor is likely to go bankrupt or carry out other financial restructuring;  
(5) The financial difficulties of the issuer or debtor have caused the disappearance of the active market for the financial 
asset;  
(6) The purchase or generation of a financial asset at a large discount, such discount reflects the fact of occurrence of credit 
loss.  
 
11.2.3  Confirmation of expected credit loss 
 
The Group confirms the expected credit loss of the relevant financial instrument according to the following method: 
• In respect of financial asset and lease receivables, the credit loss is the present value of the difference between the 
contractual cash flow that the group should receive and the cash flow that it expects to receive. 
• In respect of financial assets with credit impairment on the balance sheet date but they are not acquired or generated 
financial assets with credit impairment, the credit loss represents the difference between the balance of the book value 
of such financial asset and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted by the original effective 
interest rate.  
 
The factors reflected by the method used for calculating expected credit loss of financial instruments by the Group include: 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
250 
an unbiased weighted average amount determined by assessing a series of probable outcomes; time value of currency; 
reasonable and justifiable information relating to past events, prevailing conditions and forecast of future economic 
conditions obtained on the balance sheet date without incurring unnecessary additional cost or effort.  
 
11.2.4  Write-off on financial asset 
 
When the Group ceases to have reasonable expectation on the possible collection of all or part of the contractual cash 
flows from the financial asset, the balance of book value of such financial asset will be written off directly. Such a write-
off constitutes a derecognition of the relevant financial asset.  
 
11.3 Transfer of financial asset 
 
A financial asset that fulfills one of the followin g conditions will be de-recognized: (1) termination of contractual rights 
to receive cash flows from the financial asset; (2) upon transfer of such financial asset and transfer of substantially all the 
risks and rewards in respect of the ownership of such financial asset to the transferee; (3) upon transfer of such financial 
asset, though the Group has not transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards in respect of the ownership 
of such financial asset, yet it has not retained the control over such financial asset.   
 
If the Group has not transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards in respect of the ownership of such 
financial asset, and has retained the control over such financial asset, then such transferred financial asset will continue to 
be recognized, and the relevant liabilities will continue to be recognized, according to the level of the Group's continuous 
involvement in such transferred financial asset. The relevant liabilities will be measured by the Group ac cording to the 
following method:  
• If the transferred financial asset is measured by amortized cost, the book value of the relevant liabilities is equivalent 
to the book value of the transferred asset of continuous involvement less the amortized cost of t he rights retained by the 
Group (if the Group has retained the relevant rights due to transfer of the financial asset) and plus the amortized cost of 
the obligations undertaken by the Group (if the Group has undertaken the relevant obligations due to trans fer of the 
financial asset), and the relevant liabilities are not designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of 
the current period.  
• If the transferred financial asset is measured by fair value, the book value of the releva nt liabilities is equivalent to 
the book value of the transferred asset of continuous involvement less the fair value of the rights retained by the Group (if 
the Group has retained the relevant rights due to transfer of the financial asset) and plus the fa ir value of the obligations 
undertaken by the Group (if the Group has undertaken the relevant obligations due to transfer of the financial asset), and 
the fair value of the rights and obligations shall be measured at the fair value on a separate basis.  
 
For full transfer, which satisfies the conditions of derecognition, of the financial assets, the difference between the sum of 
the book value of the transferred financial assets as at the date of derecognition and the consideration received from such 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
251 
transfer and the accumulated amount of change in fair value originally included in other comprehensive income, which 
corresponds to the amount in respect of derecognition, shall be recognized in the profit and loss for the current period. If 
the transfer of the financial assets by the Group is designated as investment in equity instrument held for non -trading 
purpose measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the accumulated gains or losses previously included 
in other comprehensive income shall b e transferred out from other comprehensive income and be included in retained 
earnings.  
 
For transfer in part, which satisfies the conditions of derecognition, of the financial assets, the book value of the entire 
financial assets before the transfer shall be shared between the derecognized portion and the continuous recognition portion 
at their respective relative fair value on the date of transfer, and the difference between the sum of the consideration 
received from derecognition and the accumulated  amount of change in fair value originally included in other 
comprehensive income, which corresponds to the amount in respect of derecognition, and the book value of the 
derecognized portion as at the date of derecognition shall be included in the profit a nd loss of the current period. If the 
transfer of the financial assets by the Group is designated as investment in equity instrument for non -trading purpose 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the accumulated gains or losses previously included in other 
comprehensive income shall be transferred out from other comprehensive income and be included in retained earnings. 
 
For full transfer, which does not satisfy the conditions of derecognition, of the financial assets, the Group will continue to 
recognize the entire financial assets transferred and the consideration received as a result of the asset transfer is recognized 
as a liability when received. 
 
11.4 Classification, confirmation and measurement of financial liabilities and equity instruments  
 
Pursuant to the contractual terms of the issued financial instruments and the substantive economic condition as reflected, 
but not in legal terms only, combined with the definitions of financial liabilities and equity instruments, the Group ha s 
classified such financial instruments or the components thereof as financial liabilities or equity instruments upon initial 
recognition.  
 
11.4.1 Classification, confirmation and measurement of financial liabilities  
 
Financial liabilities are classified into financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period and 
other financial liabilities upon initial recognition.  
 
11.4.1.1 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period 
 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period comprise of financial liabilities held for 
trading purpose (including derivatives of financial liabilities) and financial liabilities designated as measured at fair value 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
252 
through profit and loss of the current period. Except for derivatives of financial liabilities, which are presented separately, 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss of the current period are presented as financial liabilities held  for 
trading.  
 
Financial liabilities that fulfill one of the following conditions suggest that the Group assumes such financial liabilities for 
trading purpose: 
• Assumption of the relevant financial liabilities is mainly for the purpose of the recent repurchases. 
• The relevant financial liabilities, upon initial recognition, are part of a portfolio of identifiable financial instruments 
under centralized management, and available objective evidence shows the recent and actual existence of a short -
term profit-making model.  
• The relevant financial liabilities are derivatives.  
 
Financial liabilities can be designated, upon initial recognition, by the Group as financial liabilities at fair value throug h 
profit and loss of the current period, provided that they have satisfied one of the following conditions: (1) such designation 
can eliminate or substantially reduce accounting mismatches; (2) managing and evaluating the performance of portfolios 
of financial liabilities, or portfolios of financial assets and financial liabilities, on fair value basis and reporting internally 
to key personnel of the Group on this basis in accordance with the risk management or investment strategies specified in 
formal written documents of the Group; (3) hybrid contracts, with embedded derivatives, have satisfied the conditions. 
 
Financial liabilities held for trading purpose use fair value for subsequent measurement, gains or losses arise from changes 
in fair value and the dividends or interest expenses relating to such financial liabilities are accounted in the profit and loss 
of the current period. 
 
11.4.1.2  Other financial liabilities 
 
Excluding transfer of financial assets not complying with derecognition conditions, or financial liabilities as a result of 
continuous involvement in transferred financial assets, as well as the financial guarantee contracts, the other financial 
liabilities will be classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, subsequent measurement will be based on 
amortized cost, gains or losses on derecognition or amortization will be accounted in the profit and loss of the current 
period.  
 
If the Group and the counterparty have revised or renegotiated the contract, this has not resulted in the derecognition of 
financial liabilities measured at amortized cost for subsequent measurement, but has caused changes in the contractual 
cash flows, then the Group should recalculate the book value of such financial liabilities, and the relevant gains or losses 
shall be accounted in the profit and loss of the current period. The recalculated book value of such financial liabilities will 
be determined by the Group by discounting the cash flows from the renegotiated or revised contract with the original effect 
interest rate of the financial liabilities. All costs or expenses incurred in the revision or renegotiation of the contract w ill 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
253 
be reflected in the adjusted bo ok value of financial liabilities after such revision, and will be amortized during the 
remaining period of the revised financial liabilities.    
  
 
11.4.2 Derecognition of financial liabilities 
 
When the existing obligations of a financial liability have been wholly or partially discharged, such financial liability or 
such part of it will be derecognized. When the Group (as borrower) and the lender enter into an agreement to undertake 
new financial liabilities for replacing the original financial liabiliti es, if substantive difference exists in the contractual 
terms between the new financial liabilities and the original financial liabilities, the Group should derecognize the original 
financial liabilities while at the same time recognizes the new financial liabilities.  
 
When a financial liability is wholly or partially derecognized, the difference between the book value of the derecognized 
portion and the consideration paid (including non -cash asset transferred out or new financial liabilities undertaken) w ill 
be accounted in the profit and loss of the current period.  
 
11.4.3 Equity instrument 
 
Equity instrument refers to a contract which can prove the ownership of remainder interest in assets after deducting all 
liabilities of the Group. The Group issues ( including refinances), repurchases, sells or cancels equity instruments for 
treatment of changes in equity. The Group will not recognize changes in the fair value of equity instruments. Trading 
expenses relating to equity transactions will be deducted from equity. 
 
The Group's distribution to holder of equity instrument is treated as profit distribution, the share dividends paid out will 
not affect the total equity of shareholders.  
 
11.5 Derivatives 
 
Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contract, among others. Derivatives are measured at fair value initially on 
the date of signing the relevant contract and will be measured at fair value for subsequent measurement.  
 
11.6 Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities 
 
When the Group h as legal right to offset the recognized financial assets and financial liabilities, and such legal right is 
enforceable currently, while at the same time the Group plans to perform netting settlement, or to liquidate the financial 
asset and repay the financial liability at the same time, the amount after offsetting between the financial asset and financial 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
254 
liability will be presented in the balance sheet. Save as said above, the financial asset and financial liability are presented 
separately in the balance sheet without offsetting each other.  
 
11.7 Reclassification of financial instruments 
 
When the Group changes its business model for managing financial assets, all affected underlying financial assets will be 
reclassified. All financial liabilities are not reclassified. 
 
The Group reclassifies financial assets and applies the prospective application method for relevant accounting treatment 
from the date of reclassification (i.e., the first day of the first reporting period after the change in the business model that 
led to the reclassification of financial assets). 
 
If the Group reclassifies a financial asset measured at amortized cost to a financial asset at fair value through other 
comprehensive income, it is measured at the fair value of the financial asset at the date of reclassification. The difference 
between the original carrying amount and the fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income. 
12. Notes receivable 
12.1 Combination category and determination basis of bad debt provision according to credit risk characteristics 
 
Except for the notes receivable for which individual credit risk assessments are conducted, t he Group classifies notes 
receivable into different portfolios based on the nature of the acceptor. 
 
Portfolio categories Determination basis 
Bank acceptance bill Notes receivable with acceptors are banks 
Non-bank acceptance bill Notes receivable with acceptors are non-banks 
 
12.2 The criteria for determining individual provisioning for bad debts 
The Group separately assesses the credit risk of the notes receivable with a single significant amount and the debtor with 
severe financial difficulties 
13. Accounts receivable, financial lease receivables and installment receivables in long-term receivables 
13.1 Combination category and determination basis of bad debt provision according to credit risk characteristics 
 
Except for the accounts receivable for which individual credit risk assessments are conducted , the Group categorizes 
accounts receivable into Portfolio A, Portfolio B and Portfolio C based on shared risk characteristics. Common credit risk 
characteristics adopted by the Group include the geographical location and business object. 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
255 
 
For long-term receivables, the common credit risk profile adopted by the Group includes business objects. 
 
13.2 Calculation of ageing based on age-based recognition of a portfolio of credit risk characteristics 
 
The Group uses the ageing as a credit risk characteristics, and use impairment matrix to determine the credit losses of its 
accounts receivable and long-term receivables related to the financial lease and installment collection business. The ageing 
is calculated from the end of the credit period. The ageing is calculated on a continuous basis when the terms and conditions 
of accounts receivables and long-term receivables are modified but do not result in derecognition of them. 
 
13.3 The criteria for determining individual provisioning for bad debts 
 
The Group assesses the credit risk of accounts receivable with significant indiv idual amounts and significant financial 
difficulties of debtors and financial lease receivables and installment receivables in long-term receivables individually 
14. Receivables for Financing 
14.1 Combination category and determination basis of bad debt provision according to credit risk characteristics 
 
Except for the receivables for financing for which individual credit risk assessments are conducted, the rest of receivables 
for financing includes bank acceptance bills and certificates of accounts recei vable claims. Given the low likelihood of 
incurring significant losses due to default, the Group considers that the bank acceptance bills and certificates of accounts 
receivable claims it holds do not pose significant credit risk. 
 
14.2 The criteria for determining individual provisioning for bad debts 
 
This Group individually assesses the credit risk of financing of accounts receivable where the amount is material and the 
debtor has encountered severe financial difficulties. 
15. Other receivables  
 
15.1 Combination category and determination basis of bad debt provision according to credit risk characteristics 
 
Except for other receivables for which individual credit risk assessments have been conducted, the Group categorizes other 
receivables into different groups according to the nature of the amounts, and determines credit losses on a portfolio basis. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
256 
15.2 The criteria for determining individual provisioning for bad debts  
The Group individually assesses the credit risk of other receivables that are material in amount and where the debtor has 
encountered severe financial difficulties. 
16. Inventories  
16.1 Categories of inventories, valuation method, count system, amortization method for low cost and short -lived 
consumable items and packaging materials 
 
16.1.1 Categories of inventories 
 
The Group's inventory mainly includes finished products, products in process, raw materials and contract performance 
costs. Inventories are initially measured at cost. Cost of inventories comprises all costs of purchase , costs of conversion 
and other expenditures incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. 
16.1.2 V aluation method of inventories upon delivery 
 
The actual cost of inventories upon delivery is calculated using the moving weighted average method. 
 
16.1.3 Inventory count system 
 
The perpetual inventory system is maintained for stock system. 
 
16.1.4 Amortization method for low cost and short-lived consumable items and packaging materials 
 
Packaging materials and low cost and short-lived consumable items are amortized using the immediate write-off method. 
 
16.2 The recognition standard and accounting method of inventory falling price reserves 
 
At the balance sheet date, inventory is measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value.  When the net realizable 
value is lower than the cost, the inventory falling price reserves is withdrawn. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
257 
Net realizable value is the amount of the estimated selling price of inventory in day-to-day activities less the estimated 
costs to be incurred at completion, estimated selling expenses and related taxes. The determination of net realizable 
value of inventories is based on firm evidence obtained, taking into account the purpose for which the inventories are 
held and the effect of events after the balance sheet date. 
 
After the provision for inventory depreciation, if the factors affecting the previous reduction of inventory value have 
disappeared, resulting in the net realizable value of the inventory being higher than its carrying value, the amount of the 
original provision for inventory depreciation shall be reversed, and the amount of the reversal shall be included in the 
current profit or loss. 
 
16.3 The combination category and the basis for determining the  inventory falling price reserves , and the basis for 
determining the net realizable value of different categories of inventories 
 
The Group makes provision for inventory falling price reserves by inventory category for inventories with a large 
quantity and low unit price. For inventories manufactured and sold in the same region, having the same or similar use or 
purpose, and difficult to measure separately from other items, provision for inventory depreciation shall be made on a 
consolidated basis. The Group makes provision for inventory falling price reserves according to the nature and status of 
inventories. 
 
17. Contract Assets 
17.1 Method and standard for determination of contract assets 
 
Contract assets refer to the Group's right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the Group has transferred 
to a customer when that right is conditioned on something other than the passage of time. The Group's unconditional (i.e., 
depending on the passage of time only) right to receive consideration from the customer is separately prese nted as 
receivables. 
 
17.2 Combination category and determination basis of bad debt provision according to credit risk characteristics 
Consistent with accounts receivable, based on common risk characteristics , the Group provides for credit losses on a 
portfolio basis and the common credit risk characteristics adopted include the geographical location and business object. 
 
17.3 The criteria for determining individual provisioning for bad debts 
 
The Group individually assesses the credit risk of contract asse ts that are material in amount and where the debtor has 
encountered significant financial difficulties. 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
258 
 
18. Long-term Equity Investment 
18.1 Basis for determining joint control and significant influence over investee 
 
Control is the power to govern an entity through participating in relevant activities of the investee; the investor is able to 
obtain variable benefits from its activities, and at same time, to use the control rights on the investee to influence the 
amount of returns. Joint control means that joint control for certain arrangement in accordance with relevant agreements; 
activities relevant to the arrangement cannot be decided until obtaining the unanimous consent of parties sharing control 
right. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is 
not control or joint control over those policies. When determining whether an investing enterprise is able to exercise 
control or significant influence over an investee, the effect of  potential voting rights of the investee, such as current 
convertible debts, current executable warrants, etc., held by the investing enterprises or other parties shall be considered. 
 
18.2 Determination of initial investment cost 
 
For a long-term equity, investment acquired through a business combination involving enterprises under common control, 
the shares of merged party's book value of owners' equity in the final controlling party consolidated financial statements 
obtained on the merger date shall be c onsidered as the initial investment cost of long -term equity investment. The 
differences between the initial investment cost of long-term equity investment and the paid cash, the transferred non-cash 
assets and the book value of the assumed debts are adjusted against the capital surplus; if the capital surplus is not sufficient 
to be offset, the remaining balance is adjusted against retained earnings. In the case of issued equity securities treated as  
consolidation consideration, share of book value of owne r's equity of merged party in the final controlling party 
consolidated financial statements is regarded as initial investment cost of long -term equity investments on the date of 
consolidation; capital reserve shall be adjusted in accordance with taking tot al nominal value of issued share as capital 
share, the difference between the initial investment cost of long -term equity investments and total book value of issued 
shares; In case the capital reserve is not enough for writing down, the retained earnings shall be adjusted.  
 
For a long-term equity investment acquired through business combination not involving enterprises under common control, 
and the merging cost confirmed on the purchased date are regarded as the initial investment cost. In the case that the equity 
of the acquiree is obtained through multiple deals in stages to finally form the business combination not under the common 
control, the business combination shall be handled differently based on whether it is "package deal": where it is package 
deal, the Company accounts each deal as a deal to obtain the control. If the deal is not a "package deal", the sum of the 
carrying amount of the equity investment of the acquiree plus the cost of the new investment shall be used as the in itial 
investment cost of the long-term equity investment calculated according to the cost method. The equity originally held is 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
259 
accounted for by the equity method, and the relevant other comprehensive income will not be accounted for the time being. 
 
The i ntermediate expenses made by the combining party or purchaser for audit, legal service, assessment and other 
management related expenses during the business merger should be included into the current profit and loss as it happens.  
 
Long-term equity invest ment obtained by other means other than long -term equity investment formed by business 
combination shall be initially measured at cost. 
 
18.3 Subsequent measurement and recognition of profit or loss 
 
18.3.1 Long-term equity investment accounted for using the cost method 
 
Long-term equity investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the cost method in the Company's financial 
statements. A subsidiary is an investee that is controlled by the Group. 
 
The long-term equity investment accounted by the cost method shall be measured at its initial investment cost. If there are 
additional investments or disinvestments, the long -term equity investment cost shall be adjusted. Income from the 
investment in the current period shall be recognized in accordance with the cash dividends or profits declared and issued 
by the investee.  
 
18.3.2 Long-term equity investment accounted for using the equity method 
 
Except for investments in associates and joint ventures that are wholly or partly classified as holding assets fo r sale, the 
Group accounts for investment in associates and joint ventures using the equity method. An associate is an entity over 
which the Group has significant influence and a joint venture is an entity over which the Group can only exercise joint 
control along with other investors on the investee's net assets. 
 
Under the equity method, where the initial investment cost of a long-term equity investment exceeds the Group's share of 
the fair value of the investee 's identifiable net assets at the time of acquisition, no adjustment is made to the initial 
investment cost. Where the initial investment cost is less than the Group 's share of the fair value of the investee 's 
identifiable net assets at the time of acquisition, the difference is recognized in profit or loss for the period, and the cost of 
the long-term equity investment is adjusted accordingly. 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
260 
 
Under the equity method, the Group recognizes its share of the net profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the 
investee for the period as investment income or loss and comprehensive income for the period, meanwhile, the book value 
of the long-term equity investment shall be adjusted; The Group shall accordingly reduce the book value of the long-term 
equity investment in terms of the part that shall be enjoyed according to the profit or cash dividends declared by the 
invested unit to be distributed; For other changes in the owners' equity of the invested unit other than net profits and losses, 
other comprehensive incomes and the profit distribution, the book value of long-term equity investment shall be adjusted 
and be included into the capital reserves. The Group shall, on the ground of the fair value of all identifiable assets of the  
invested entity when it obtains the investment, recognize the attributable share of the net profits and losses of the invested 
entity after it adjusts the net profits of the invested entity. If the accounting policies and accounting periods adopted by the 
invested unit are different from those adopted by the Group, the adjustment shall be made for the financial statements of 
the invested unit in accordance with the accounting policies and accounting periods of the Group to recognize the 
investment income and other comprehensive incomes. For the transaction incurred between  the group and associated 
enterprises and joint ventures, invested or sold assets don't constitute a business, the part that doesn't achieve internal 
transaction profit or loss or belongs to the Group calculated according to the enjoyed ratio will be offset, and the profit or 
loss on investment will be confirmed on this basis. But for the unrealized loss arising from the internal transaction between 
the Group and the invested unit, if such transaction loss is defined as the impairment loss of the transferre d asset, they 
cannot be offset.  
 
When the Group determines the net loss of the invested unit that shall be shared, it is necessary to write -down the book 
value of the long-term equity investment and other long-term equities substantially constituting the net investment of the 
invested unit to zero as a limit. Besides, if the Group is obliged to bear extra loss for the invested unit, it shall be necessary 
to determine provisions and record them to current investment loss in compliance with obligations expected to be assumed. 
If the invested unit realizes any net profits later, the Group shall, after the amount of its attributable share of profits offsets 
its attributable share of the un-confirmed losses, resume recognizing its attributable share of profits.  
 
18.4 Disposal of long-term equity investments 
 
On disposal of a long term equity investment, the difference between the proceeds actually received and the carrying 
amount is recognized in profit or loss for the period. 
 
19. Fixed Assets  
19.1 Recognition criteria for fixed assets 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
261 
Fixed assets are tangible assets that are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, 
or for administrative purposes, and have useful lives of more than one accounting year. A fixed asset is recognized only 
when it is probable that economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be 
measured reliably. Fixed assets are initially measured at cost. 
 
Subsequent expenditures incurred for the fixed asset are included in the cost of  the fixed asset and if it is probable that 
economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the subsequent expenditures can be measured 
reliably. Meanwhile the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. Other subsequent ex penditures are 
recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. 
 
19.2 Depreciation of each category of fixed assets 
 
A fixed asset is depreciated over its useful life using the straight -line method since the month subsequent to the on e in 
which it is ready for intended use. The depreciation method, depreciation period, estimated residual value rate and annual 
depreciation rate of each category of fixed assets are as follows: 
 
Item 
Depreciation 
method 
Depreciation period Residual value rate (%) Annual depreciation rate (%) 
Buildings and Constructions 
Straight-line 
depreciation 
20 years 10 4.5 
General-purpose equipment 
Straight-line 
depreciation 
3-5 years 10 18.0-30.0 
Special-purpose equipment 
Straight-line 
depreciation 
3-5 years 10 18.0-30.0 
Transportation vehicles 
Straight-line 
depreciation 
5 years 10 18.0 
 
Estimated net residual value of a fixed asset is the estimated amount that the Group would currently obtain from disposal 
of the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset were already of the age and in the condition 
expected at the end of its useful life.  
 
19.3 Other explanations 
 
If a fixed asset is upon disposal or no future economic benefits are expected to be generated from its use or disposal, the 
fixed asset is derecognized. When a fixed asset is sold, transferred, retired or damaged, the amount of any proceeds on 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
262 
disposal of the asset net of the carrying amount and related taxes is recognized in profit or loss for the period. 
 
The Group reviews the useful life and estimated net residual value of a fixed asset and the depreciation method applied at 
least once at each financial year-end, and account for any change as a change in an accounting estimate. 
 
20. Construction in Process 
Construction in progress is measured at its actual costs. The actual costs include various construction expenditures during 
the construction period, borrowing costs capitalized before it is ready for intended use and other relevant costs. 
Construction in progress is not depreciated. Construction in progress is transferred to a fixed asset when i t is ready for 
intended use. The standards and time points for carrying forward various types of projects under construction to fixed 
assets are as follows: 
Item Standards and timing of carry-over as fixed assets 
Buildings and Constructions The main construction project and supporting projects have been substantially completed  
and reached a state of practical usability. 
Equipments to be installed and 
commissioned 
Relevant equipment and other supporting facilities have been installed; after debugging, the 
equipment can maintain normal and stable operation for a period of time. 
 
21. Borrowing Costs 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition & construction or production of assets eligible for capitalization 
shall be capitalized when assets expenditure, borrowing costs and necessary construction or production for bringing assets 
to expect ed conditions for use or marketing have taken place; when construction or production of assets ready for 
capitalization reach to expected conditions for use or marketing, capitalization shall be ceased. Other borrowing expenses 
are recognized as expenses in the current period.  
 
Where funds are borrowed under a specific-purpose borrowing, the amount of interest to be capitalized is the actual interest 
expense incurred on that borrowing for the period less any bank interest earned from depositing the borrowed funds before 
being used on the asset or any investment income on the temporary investment of those funds. Where funds are borrowed 
under general-purpose borrowings, the Group determines the amount of interest to be capitalized on such borrowings by 
applying a capitalization rate to the weighted average of the excess of cumulative expenditures on the asset over the 
amounts of specific-purpose borrowings. The capitalization rate is the weighted average of the interest rates applicable to 
the general -purpose borrowings. During the capitalization period, exchange differences related to a specific -purpose 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
263 
borrowing denominated in foreign currency are all capitalized. Exchange differences in connection with general-purpose 
borrowings are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.  
 
22. Intangible Assets 
22.1 Service life and its basis for determination, estimate, amortization method or review procedure 
 
Intangible assets include land use right, intellectual property (IP), application software, and franchise, etc.  
 
An intangible asset is measured initially at cost. When an intangible asset with a finite useful life is available for use, i ts 
original cost is amortized over its estimated useful life using the straight -line method. The amortization method, service 
life and net residual value of various intangible assets are shown as follows:  
Class Amortization method Service life (year) Determination basis Salvage value 
rate (%) 
Land use right Straight-line method 40 or 50 years Term of use of property rights - 
IP Right Straight-line method 5-10 Years Expected economic benefit life - 
Application Software Straight-line method 5-10 years Expected economic benefit life - 
Franchise Straight-line method Franchised operating 
period Franchise contract duration - 
 
The fees charged by the Group to those who acquire public products and services during the project operation period do 
not constitute an unconditional right to receive cash. When the PPP project assets are ready for their intended use, the 
difference between the consideration amount of the relevant PPP project assets or the amount of confirmed construction 
income and the amount of cash (or other financial assets) that is entitled to receive a determinable amount will be 
recognized as intangible assets. 
 
For an intangible asset with a finite useful life, the Group reviews the useful life and amortization method at the end of the 
year, and makes adjustments when necessary. 
 
22.2 The accounting treatment methods and the collection scope of research and development expenditure  
 
Expenditure during the research phase is recognized as an expense in the period in which it is incurred. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
264 
Expenditure during the development phase that meets all of the following conditions at the same time is recognized as 
intangible asset. Expenditure during development phase that does not meet the following conditions is recognized in profit 
or loss for the period.  
(1) It is technically feasible to complete the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;  
(2) The Group has the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it; 
(3) The Group can demonstrate the ways in which th e intangible asset will generate economic benefits, including the 
evidence of the existence of a market for the output of the intangible asset or the intangible asset itself or, if it is to be used 
internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset; 
(4) The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and the ability to use 
or sell the intangible asset; and 
(5) The expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development phase can be reliably measured. 
 
If the expenditures cannot be distinguished between the research phase and development phase, the Group recognizes all 
of them in profit or loss for the period. The costs of the intangible assets generated by internal development activities only 
include the total expenditure incurred from the time point when the capitalization conditions are available to the point 
when the intangible assets are used for their intended purposes; for the expenditure that already becomes an expenditure 
in the profit and loss statement before the capitalization conditions are available during development of the same intangible 
asset, no adjustment will be made.  
 
The aggregate scope of the Group's R&D expenses includes employee compensation for personnel directly engag ed in 
R&D activities, materials and service fees directly consumed by R&D activities, depreciation expenses and amortization 
expenses of intangible assets for equipment and equipment used in R&D activities, intermediate testing expenses for R&D 
activities, new product design expenses, and travel, transportation and communication expenses required for research and 
test development. The Group uses the passing of feasibility studies and the completion of R&D project projects after 
evaluation as the specific criteria for classifying R&D projects into research and development phases. 
23. Long-term Assets Impairment 
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is any indication that the long-term equity investment, fixed 
assets, construction in process, and intangible assets with a finite useful life may be impaired. If there is any indication 
that such assets may be impaired, recoverable amounts are estimated for such assets. Intangible assets with indefinite 
useful life and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there 
is any indication that the assets may be impaired. 
 
Recoverable amount is estimated on individual basis. If it is not practical to estimate the recoverable amount of an 
individual asset, the recoverable amount of the asset group to which the asset belongs will be estimated. The recoverable 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
265 
amount is determined by the higher of 1) net amount of fair value of the asset or asset group deducted by the disposal 
expenses; or 2) the present value of the expected future cash flows of the asset or asset group. 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset or an asset group is less than its carrying amount, the deficit is accounted as an 
impairment provision and is recognized in profit or loss for the period. 
 
Goodwill impairment test shall be conducted at the end of each year at least. Goodwill impairment test shall be conducted 
in accordance with the concerned asset group or asset portfolio. That is to allocate the book value of goodwill to the asset 
group or asset portfolio that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination in a reasonable way from the date 
of purchasing. When recoverable amount of apportion-included asset group or asset portfolio of goodwill is less than book 
value of goodwill, impairment loss shall be recognized. Firstly, amount of impairment loss shall be apportioned to the 
book value of goodwill of the said asset group or asset portfolio, and then book value of other assets, except for goodwill, 
in asset group or asset portfolio shall be abated in proportion. 
 
Once the impairment loss of such assets is recognized, it cannot be reversed in any subsequent period.  
 
24. Long-term Deferred Expenses 
 
Long-term deferred expenses are the expenses that are already incurred but will be shared in the current reporting period 
and later periods with amortization term of more than one year, mainly for the expenses on betterment of leased fixed 
assets and employee housing loan deferred interest. Long-term deferred expenses are evenly amortized in installments in 
three to five years during the expected benefit period.  
25. Contract Liabilities 
Contract liabilities refer to the obligation of the Group to transfer goods or services to customers for consideration received 
or receivable from customers. Contract assets and contract liabilities under the same contract are presented in net terms. 
 
26. Employee Compensation 
26.1 Accountant Arrangement Method of Short-term Remuneration  
 
During accounting period when the Grou p's employees provide services, actual short -term remuneration shall be 
recognized as the liabilities and current profit and loss or relevant asset cost. The Group's employee benefits and welfare 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
266 
are included into current profit and loss or relevant asset cost according to actual amount occurred during the period. If 
the employee benefits and welfare is non-monetary, it shall be measured according to its fair value. 
 
During the accounting period that the employees service the Group, the Group pays social in surance premiums such as 
medical insurance premium, industrial injury insurance premium, maternity insurance premium and housing accumulation 
fund for its employees, as well as labor union expenditure and employee education expenses calculated and withdraw n 
according to the regulations, corresponding employee remuneration amount shall be calculated and determined in 
accordance with specified calculation and withdrawal basis and proportion to recognize corresponding liabilities and 
included into the current profit and loss or relevant asset cost.  
 
26.2 Accountant Arrangement Method of Post-employment Benefits  
 
All post-employment benefits shall be considered as the defined contribution plan.  
 
In the accounting period when the employee serves for the Group, the deposited amount calculated based on defined 
contribution plan shall be recognized as liabilities and included in the current profit and loss or relevant asset cost.  
 
26.3 Accountant Arrangement Method of the Termination Benefits 
 
Where the Group provides termination benefits, the employee remuneration liabilities caused by such termination benefits 
will be determined as the following date, whichever is earlier, and will be included in the current profit and loss: 1) When 
the Group cannot unilaterally withdraw the termination benefits provided due to labor relation cancellation plan or 
employee lay-off suggestion; or 2)when the Group determines costs or expenses in relation with the restru cturing of the 
paid termination benefits.  
 
27. Provisions 
Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation related to a contingency such as products quality 
assurance, etc. And it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the 
amount of the obligation can be measured reliably. 
 
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at 
the balance sheet date, taking into a ccount factors pertaining to a contingency such as the risks, uncertainties and time 
value of money. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount of the provision is determined by 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
267 
discounting the related future cash outflows. 
 
The Group estimates product quality guarantee deposits based on expected claim rates, maintenance and replacement costs, 
etc. 
 
28. Share-based Payment 
Share-based payment refers to a transaction in which the Group grants the equity instruments or undertakes the equity-
instrument-based liabilities in return for services from employees. The Group's share -based payment is an equity-settled 
share-based payment.  
 
28.1 Equity-settled share-based payments 
 
Equity-settled share-based payments in exchange for services rendered by employees are measured at the fair value of the 
equity instruments granted to employees at the grant date. Such amount is recognized as related costs or expenses on a 
straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in capital reserve. 
 
At each balance sheet date during the vesting period, the Group makes the best estimate according to the subsequent latest 
information of change in the number of employees who are granted with options that may vest, etc. and revises the number 
of equity instruments expected to vest. The effect of the above estimate is recognized as related costs or expenses, with a 
corresponding adjustment to capital reserve. 
 
28.2. Accounting treatment related to implementation, modification and termination of share-based payment arrangement 
 
In case the Group modifies a share-based payment arrangement, if the modification increases the fair value of the equity 
instruments granted, the Group will include the incremental fair value of the equity instruments granted in the measurement 
of the amount recognized for services received. If the modification increases the number of the equity instruments granted, 
the Group will include the fair value of additional equity instruments granted in the measurement of the amount recognized 
for services received. The increase in the fair value of the equity instruments granted is the difference between fair value 
of the equity instruments before and after the modification on the date of the modification. If the Group modifies the terms 
or conditions of the share -based payment arrangement in a manner that reduces the total fair value of the share -based 
payment arrangement, or is not otherwise beneficial to the employee, the Group will continue to account for the services 
received as if that modification had not occurred, other than a cancellation of some or all the equity instruments granted. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
268 
If cancellation of the equity instruments granted occurs during the vesting period, the Group will account for the 
cancellation of the equity instruments granted as an acceleration of vesting, and recognize immediately the amount that 
otherwise would have been recognized over the remainder of the vesting period in profit or loss for the period, with a 
corresponding recognition in capital reserve. When the employee or counterparty can choose whether to meet the non -
vesting condition but the condition is not met during the vesting period, the Group treats it as a cancellation of the equity 
instruments granted. 
 
29. Revenue 
The Group's reven ue consists of product sales revenue, engineering construction revenue and cloud services and other 
service revenue. 
 
When (or as) a performance obligation in a contract was satisfied, i.e., when (or as) the customer obtains control of relevant 
goods or services, the Group recognizes as revenue the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to that performance 
obligation. A performance obligation is the Group's commitment to transfer to a customer a good or service (or a bundle 
of goods or services) that is distinct, in a contract with the customer.  
 
The Group evaluates the contract on the commencement date of the contract, identifies the individual performance 
obligations contained in the contract and determines whether each individual performance o bligation is to be performed 
over a certain period of time or at a certain point in time. Revenue is recognized over time by reference to the progress 
towards complete satisfaction of the relevant performance obligation if one of the following criteria is met: (1) the customer 
simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group's performance as the Group performs; (2) the 
Group's performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the Group performs; or (3) the Group 's 
performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Group and the Group has an enforceable right to 
payment for performance completed to date. Otherwise, revenue is recognized at a point in time when the customer obtains 
control of the distinct good or service. 
 
If the contract contains two or more performance obligations, the Group allocates the transaction price to each single 
performance obligation on the contract start date in accordance with the relative proportion of the individual selling price 
of the goods or services promised by each single performance obligation. However, if there is strong evidence that the 
contract discount or variable consideration is only related to one or more (but not all) performance obligations in the 
contract, the Group allocates the contract discount or variable consideration to the relevant one or more performances 
obligation. Individual selling price refers to the price at which the Group sells goods or services to customers separately. 
Where the indiv idual selling price cannot be directly observed, the Group comprehensively considers all relevant 
information that can be reasonably obtained, and uses the observable input value to the maximum to estimate the individual 
selling price. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
269 
The Group judges whether the Group's identity is the principal or agent when engaging in transactions based on whether 
it has control over the goods or services before transferring the goods or services to customers. If the Group is able to 
control the goods or services befo re transferring them to customers, the Group is the principal responsible person, and 
revenue is recognized based on the total amount of consideration received or receivable. Otherwise, the Group acts as an 
agent and recognizes revenue based on the amount of commission or handling fee to which it is expected to be entitled, 
which is determined based on the net amount of the total consideration received or receivable less the consideration payable 
to other related parties, or based on a predetermined commission amount or proportion, etc. 
 
29.1 Revenue from sale of products  
 
Product sales revenue is the revenue from sales of video surveillance products, smart home products, robotics products 
and other products of the Group. 
 
According to the contract, the Group recognizes revenue when the control of the product is transferred, that is, when the 
product is handed over to the agreed carrier or delivered to the place designated by the other party for receipt. As the 
delivery of the products to the customer represents the right to receive the contract consideration unconditionally, and the 
maturity of the payment is only subject to the passage of time, the Group recognises a receivable when the product is 
delivered to the customer. When a customer prepays for a purchase, the Group recognises the transaction amount received 
as a contractual liability until revenue is recognized when the product is delivered to the customer. 
 
There is variable consideration in the product sales contracts between the Group and its distributors. The Group determines 
the best estimate of the variable consideration based on the expected delivery time, quantity and price of the products. The 
transaction price, including variable consideration, does not exceed the amount by which the accrued recognized revenue 
is unlikely to be materially reversed at the time the relevant uncertainty is eliminated. At each balance sheet date, the 
Group re-estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price. 
 
When the Group sells products to distributors, it provides an additional purchase option under sales incentives, i.e., the 
Group's distributors can accumulate sales rebates when purchasing specific products from the Group and use them to offset 
the price of goods in future purchases. These sales rebates provide resellers with discounts on their future purchases that 
are not available to similar customers. As a result, the commitment to provide the dealer with a credit for future purchases 
is a separate performance obligation that is recognized as a contractual liability at the time of the sale transaction at the 
transaction price apportioned to the fair value of the rebate, and revenue is recognized when the reseller uses the sales 
rebate offset. 
 
The Group provides quality assurance for the products sold, and the quality assurance related to the products sold by the 
Group cannot be purchased separately, but is to assure customers that the products sold meet the established standards, so 
the Group carries out accoun ting treatment in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standard for Business 
Enterprises No. 13 - Contingencies. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
270 
For product sales of the Group with sales return terms attached, as the customer obtains ownership of related products, the 
Group recognizes revenue in accordance with the consideration (excluding expected refund amounts due to sales returns) 
that the Group is expected to receive due to the transfer of products or services to the customer, and recognizes expected 
liabilities in accordanc e with expected refund amounts due to sales returns. The remaining amount, subsequent to 
deduction of expected costs from collecting the products (including the decrease in value of the returned products), is 
recognized as an asset in accordance with the c arrying amount during the expected transfer of returned products after 
deducting the costs of the above net assets carried forward. 
 
Some of the Group's product sales contracts have instalment payment clauses, and there is a significant financing 
component in the contract, the Group determines the transaction price based on the amount payable in cash when the 
customer assumes control of the products. The difference between the transaction price and the contract consideration is 
amortized using the effective  interest rate method during the contract period. On the contract commencement date, the 
Group does not consider the significant financing components in the contract if the interval between the customer obtaining 
control of the products and the price being paid by the customer is not more than one year. 
 
29.2 Project construction revenue 
 
Project construction revenue is the revenue from constructions related to intelligent security solution projects and PPP 
Projects provided by the Group. 
 
For project construction, the customer is able to control the assets under construction in the course of the Group's 
performance, and the Group regards them as a performance obligation to be performed within a certain period of time, and 
the revenue is recognized according to the performance progress, unless the performance progress cannot be reasonably 
determined. 
 
The Group uses the output method to determine the progress of performance, which is to determine the progress of 
performance based on the value of engineer ing construction services transferred to customers. If the progress of 
performance cannot be reasonably determined and the costs incurred by the Group are expected to be compensated, 
revenue is recognized according to the amount of costs incurred until the  progress of performance can be reasonably 
determined. 
 
The Group's customers make milestone payments with the Group in respect of projects in accordance with the terms of 
the contract. The Group first recognizes the completed performance obligations as contract assets and reclassifies them as 
accounts receivable when the payment milestone is reached; if the contract price received or receivable by the Group 
exceeds the accumulated performance obligations completed, the excess part is recognized as a contra ct liability. The 
Group's contract assets and contractual liabilities under the same contract are presented on a net basis. 
 
Some of the Group's construction contracts have long-term payment clauses, and there are significant financing elements 
in the contracts. The Group determines the transaction price on the basis of the amount payable in cash on the assumption 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
271 
that the customer will take control of the asset -building. The difference between the transaction price and the contract 
consideration is amortized over the life of the contract using the effective interest method. At the commencement date of 
the contract, the Group expects that the interval between the customer obtaining control of the service and the customer 
paying the price will not exceed one year, regardless of the significant financing component existing in the contract. 
 
The Group, as a private capital, entered into a PPP project contract with the government and provided construction, 
operation, maintenance and other services. The Group identifies construction services, operation services and maintenance 
services as individual performance obligations in the contract, and allocates the transaction price to each performance 
obligation based on the relative proportion of the stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation. When providing 
construction services or outsourcing projects to other parties, The identity of the Group is the principal responsible person, 
and then accounting for construction revenue to confirm the contract assets is made. After the PPP project is ready for use, 
the Group recognizes revenue related to operation and maintenance services. 
 
29.3 Cloud service and other service revenue 
 
Revenue from cloud services and other services refers to cloud services such as stor age services, video services, and 
telephone services provided by the Group, maintenance services related to security projects, and other services, etc. 
 
For cloud services and other services, the economic benefits brought by the customer are obtained and c onsumed at the 
time of the Group's performance, and the Group regards them as a performance obligation to be performed within a certain 
period, and the revenue is recognized according to the performance progress during the period of providing services. The 
Group adopts the output approach to determine the performance progress, i.e. the performance progress is determined 
based on the value of the services transferred to the customer to the customer. The customer paid for the cloud services in 
advance at the time of purchase, so the Group recognized the cloud service payment received at the time of the transaction 
as a contractual liability, and recognized the revenue according to the performance progress during the period of the 
provision of the services. The Group presents contract assets and contract liabilities under the same contract on a net basis. 
 
For the provision of operation and maintenance services to customers, the economic benefits obtained and consumed by 
the customers at the same time as the per formance of the contract by the Group shall be regarded as the performance 
obligation to be performed within a certain period of time, and the revenue shall be recognized according to the 
performance progress. The Group's customers make milestone payments with the Group for O&M services in accordance 
with the terms of the contract. The Group first recognizes completed performance obligations as contract assets and 
reclassifies them as accounts receivable when payment milestones are reached, and if the contr act price received or 
receivable by the Group exceeds the accumulated performance obligations completed, the excess part is recognized as a 
contract liability. The Group's contract assets and contractual liabilities under the same contract are presented on  a net 
basis. 
 
For the provision of operation and maintenance services to customers, the economic benefits obtained and consumed by 
the customers at the same time as the performance of the contract by the Group shall be regarded as the performance 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
272 
obligation to be performed within a certain period of time, and the revenue shall be recognized according to the 
performance progress. The Group's customers make milestone payments with the Group for O&M services in accordance 
with the terms of the contract. The p art of the Group that has obtained the unconditional right to receive payment is 
recognized as accounts receivable, and the remainder is recognized as contract assets, and if the contract price received or 
receivable by the Group exceeds the accumulated performance obligations completed, the excess part is recognized as a 
contract liability. The Group's contract assets and contractual liabilities under the same contract are presented on a net 
basis. 
 
30. Cost of Contract 
30.1 Cost of obtaining a contract 
 
Incremental costs incurred by the Group to obtain a contract (that is, costs that would not have occurred without a contract) 
and expected to be recovered are recognized as an asset, and amortized using the same basis as revenue recognition for 
the goods or services to which the asset relates, and included in current profit or loss. If the amortization period of the 
asset does not exceed one year, it is included in current profit or loss when it occurs. Other expenses incurred by the Group 
in order to obtai n the contract shall be included in current profit or loss when incurred, unless it is clearly borne by the 
customer.  
 
30.2 Cost of contract fulfillment 
 
The cost of the Group's performance of a contract that does not fall within the scope of accounting s tandards other than 
the revenue standard and meets the following conditions is recognized as an asset: (1) The cost is directly related to a 
current or anticipated contract; (2) The cost increases the Group 's resources for fulfilling performance obligations in the 
future; (3) The cost is expected to be recovered. The aforesaid assets are amortized on the same basis as the recognition 
of income from goods or services related to the assets, and are included in the current profit or loss. 
The Group's asset in relation to contract costs are mainly contract performance costs, and they are included in inventories 
based on their current nature. 
 
30.3 Impairment losses on assets related to contract costs 
 
In determining impairment losses on assets related to contract costs, impairment losses are first determined for other assets 
recognized in accordance with other relevant ASBEs and related to the contract. Then, for assets related to contract costs 
whose carrying value is higher than the difference between the follo wing two items, the Group makes provision for 
impairment for the excess to be recognized as asset impairment losses: (1) the remaining amount of consideration expected 
to be obtained by the Group for the transfer of goods or services related to the asset; (2) the estimated costs to be incurred 
in connection with the transfer of such relevant goods or services. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
273 
After provision for impairment is made for the asset related to contract costs, if the difference between the above two items 
is higher than the carrying value of the asset due to changes in the factors of impairment in previous periods, the original 
provision for impairment of the asset is reversed and included in the current profit or loss, but the carrying value of the 
asset after the reversal shal l not exceed the carrying value of the asset on the reversal date assuming no provision for 
impairment is made. 
 
31. Governmental Subsidies 
Government subsidies refer to the monetary and non-monetary assets obtained by the Group from the government for free. 
Government subsidies are recognized when they can meet the conditions attached to the government subsidies and can be 
received. 
 
If a government subsidy is a monetary asset, it shall be measured at the amount received or receivable. 
 
31.1 Judgment basis and Accountant treatment of government subsidy related to assets 
 
The government subsidies for some special subsidies and etc. are used for constructions and forms long-term assets, and 
therefore are categorized as government subsidy related to assets.  
 
A government grant related to an asset is recognized as deferred income, and it should be evenly amortized to profit or 
loss over the useful life of the related asset. 
 
31.2 Judgment basis and accountant treatment of government subsidy related to income 
 
The Group receives government subsidies including subsidies for special projects and Value-Added-Tax refund, etc. which 
are used to compensate the group-related costs or losses, and therefore are categorized as government subsidy related to 
income. 
 
For a government grant related to income, if the subsidy is a compensation for related expenses or losses to be incurred in 
subsequent periods, it is recognized as deferred income, and recognized in profit or loss over the periods in which the 
related costs or losses are recognized; If the subsidy, such as VAT refund, is a compensation for related expenses or losses 
already incurred, it is recognized immediately in profit or loss for the period. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
274 
For government subsidies related to the Group's daily operations shall be booked into other income; for those not related 
to the Group's daily operations, shall be booked into non-operating income/expense.  
 
The policy-based preferential loan interest subsidy obtained by our group is directly allocated by the government to  our 
group, and the corresponding interest subsidy offsets the relevant borrowing costs. 
 
32. Deferred Tax Assets / Deferred Tax Liabilities 
The income tax expenses include current income tax and deferred income tax.  
 
32.1. Current Income Tax 
 
At the balance sheet date, current income tax liabilities (or assets) for the current and prior periods are measured at the 
amount expected to be paid (or recovered) according to the requirements of tax laws. 
 
32.2 Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities 
 
For temporary differences between the carrying amounts of certain assets or liabilities and their tax base, or between the 
nil carrying amount of those items that are not recognized as assets or liabilities and their tax base that can be determined 
according to tax laws, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized through the balance sheet liability method. 
 
In general, all temporary differences are recognized as the relevant deferred income tax. However, for deductible 
temporary differences, the G roup recognizes the relevant deferred tax assets to the extent that it is likely to obtain the 
taxable income to offset the deductible temporary differences. In addition, deferred tax assets or liabilities relating to the 
initial recognition of goodwill, as well as those arising from transactions that are neither a business combination nor affect 
accounting profits and taxable income (or deductible losses) and do not result in equal taxable and deductible temporary 
differences, are not recognized. 
 
For deductible losses and tax credits that can be carried forward, deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible losses and tax credits can be utilized. 
 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except 
where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
275 
temporary difference wil l not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary 
differences associated with such investments are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be taxable 
profits against which to utilize the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable 
future.  
 
On the balance sheet date, the deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are measured at the applicable 
tax rates in the period in which the related assets are recovered or the related liabilities are recovered in accordance with 
the tax laws. 
 
Current and deferred tax expenses or income are recognized in profit or loss for the period, except when they arise from 
transactions or events that are directly recognized in other comprehensive income or in shareholders' equity, in which case 
they are recognized in other comprehensive income or in shareholders' equity; and when they arise from business 
combinations, in which case they adjust the carrying amount of goodwill. 
 
At the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed and reduced if it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the future to allow the benefit of deferred tax assets to be utilized. Such 
reduction in amount is reversed when it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available. 
 
32.3 Offset of Income Tax  
 
When the Group has a legal right to settle on a net basis and intends either to settle on a n et basis or to realize the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously, current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis. 
 
When the Group has a legal right to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net bas is, and deferred tax assets and 
deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or 
different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realize the assets 
and liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are 
expected to be reversed, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and presented on a net basis. 
 
33. Lease  
Lease refers to a contract that conveys the right to use an asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
276 
The Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the inception date. The Group does not re-assess whether 
a contract contains a lease unless the terms and conditions of the contract are changed.  
 
33.1 The Group as the lessee  
 
33.1.1 Separating components of lease 
 
In case the contract contains one or more lease and non-lease components, the Group separates each lease component and 
non-lease component, and allocates the consideration to the lease and non -lease components based on the propo rtion of 
relative stand-alone prices of the components.  
 
33.1.2 Right-of-use assets  
 
The Group recognizes the right-of-use assets for leases on the commencement date of the lease term, except for short-term 
lease and lease of low -value assets. The commencement date of the lease term refers to the date from which the lessor 
makes the leased assets available for use by the Group. Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost. The cost includes:  
 Initial measurement amount of lease liabilities;  
 Amount of lease payment made at or before the commencement date of the lease, less any lease incentives received;  
 Initial direct costs incurred by the Group;  
 An estimate of any costs to be incurred by the Group in dismantling and removing the underlying asset, or restoring 
the site on which it is located, or restoring the leased assets to the conditions as agreed under the terms of the lease, 
excluding costs incurred to produce inventories.  
 
The Group calculates depreciation of the right -of-use assets in accordance with the relevant depreciation provisions of 
Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 4 - Fixed Assets. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter 
of the lease term and the useful life of the right -of-use asset, unless there is a transfer of ownership or purchase option 
which is reasonably certain to be exercised at the end of the lease term.  
 
The Group determines whether the right -of-use assets are impaired and  accounts for the identified impairment loss in 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 8 - Impairment of Assets.  
 
33.1.3 Lease liabilities  
 
The Group initially measures the lease liability on the commencement date at an amount equal to the present value of the 
lease payments during the lease term that are not paid at that date, except short -term lease and lease of low-value assets. 
In calculating the present value of the lease payments, the Group adopts the interest rate implicit in the lease as the discount 
rate. The Group uses its incremental borrowing rate if the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined.  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
277 
 
Lease payments refer to the payments made by the Group to the lessor in connection with the right to use the leased asset 
during the lease term, including:  
 Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments, less any lease incentives receivable;  
 The exercise price of a purchase option, if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option;  
 Payments for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising the option to terminate the lease; 
 Amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees. 
 
After the commencement date of the lease term, the Group calculates interest expense of lease liabilities in each period of 
lease term at fixed periodic rate and recognizes in the current loss and profit or relevant asset costs.  
 
After the commencement date of the lease term, the Group remeasure s the lease liability and adjusts the corresponding 
right-of-use assets under the following circumstances. If the carrying value of the right-of-use assets has been reduced to 
zero while the lease liability needs to be further reduced, the Group will recognize the difference into the current loss and 
profit:  
 In case of any change of the lease term or any change in the valuation of the purchase option, the Group remeasures 
the lease liability at the present value calculated based on the modified lease payments and the revised discount rate;  
 In the event of any change in the amount expected to be payable based on the residual value guarantees, the Group 
remeasures the lease liability at the present value calculated based on the changed lease payments and the original 
discount rate.  
 
33.1.4 Basis for judgment and accounting treatment of the lessee's simplified treatment of short-term leases and leases 
of low-value assets   
 
The Group has elected not to recognize the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases and leases of low-
value assets. Short-term lease refers to lease with a term no more than 12 months from the commencement date of lease 
term and without purchase option. Lease of low-value assets refers to lease for single lease asset with low value when it 
is new. The Group recognizes lease payments under short -term leases and leases of low -value assets as the current loss 
and profit or the relevant asset costs on a straight-line basis over each period during the lease term.  
 
33.1.5 Lease modification  
 
In case of lease modification, the Group makes accounting treatment of such lease change as a separate lease if all of the 
following conditions are met: 
 Such lease modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more lease assets;  
 The increased consideration is commensurate with the stand-alone price for the increase in scope and any appropriate 
adjustments to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
278 
 
Where accounting treatment is not made for lease modification as a separate lease, at the effec tive date of lease 
modification, the Group reallocates the contract consideration after the modification, redetermines the lease term, and 
remeasures the lease liability based on the present value calculated according to the modified lease payments and the  
revised discount rate.  
 
In the event that the lease scope is decreased or the lease term is shortened as a result of the lease modification, the Group 
reduces the carrying amount of the right-of-use assets, and recognizes the relevant gains or losses relating to the partial or 
full termination of the lease in the income statement; for the lease liabilities remeasured due to other lease modifications, 
the Group adjusts the carrying amount of the right-of-use assets accordingly.  
 
33.2 The Group as the lessor  
 
33.2.1 Separating components of lease  
 
In case the contract contains both lease and non -lease components, the Group allocates the contract consideration in 
accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises No. 14 - Revenue on portion of 
transaction prices, based on the respective stand-alone prices of the lease component and the non-lease component.  
 
33.2.2 Classification criteria and accounting treatment for leases as lessors  
 
Finance lease is a lease that substantially transfers all the risks and rewards of inci dental to ownership of an underlying 
asset. Operating lease refers to the leases other than finance lease.  
 
33.2.2.1 The Group records the operating lease business as the lessor  
The Group recognizes the lease payments from operating leases as rental inco me on a straight-line basis for all periods 
over the lease term. The Group's initial direct costs incurred in connection with operating leases is capitalized as incurred, 
recognized in the income statement over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income.  
 
33.2.2.2 The Group records the finance lease business as the lessor  
 
On the commencement date of the lease term, the Group uses the net lease investment as the carrying value of the finance 
lease receivables and derecognizes the finance lease a ssets. Net lease investment is the sum of present value of 
unguaranteed residual value and lease payments receivable discounted at the interest rate implicit in lease on the 
commencement date of the lease term.  
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
279 
Lease payments receivable, which refer to amounts receivable by the Group from the lessee for conveying the right to use 
the leased assets during the lease term, include:  
 Fixed payment including in-substance fixed payments by the lessee, less any lease incentives payable;  
 The exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option;  
 Payments for terminating the lease (if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising the option to terminate the lease; 
 Residual value guarantees provided to the Group by the lessee, a party related to the lessee, or a third party unrelated 
to the lessor that is capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee. 
The Group calculates and recognizes the interest income in each period of the lease term according to the fixe d periodic 
interest rate.  
 
In financial leases in which the Group acts as a manufacturer or distributor as the lessor, on the commencement date of 
the lease term, the Group recognizes revenue based on the lower of the fair value of the leased assets and the present value 
of the lease receipts discounted at the market rate, and carries forward the cost of sales based on the balance of the carrying 
amount of the leased assets after deducting the present value of the unsecured residual value. 
 
The costs incurred by the Group acting as a manufacturer or distributor as a lessor to obtain a financial lease are recognized 
in profit or loss for the current period on the commencement date of the lease term. 
 
33.2.3 Lease modification  
 
In case of modification o f the operating lease, the Group accounts for it as a new lease as of the effective date of the 
modification, any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to the original lease are considered as payments for the new 
lease .  
 
In case of modification of the finance lease, the Group accounts for the modification of a finance lease as a separate lease 
if all of the following conditions are met:  
 The modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more lease assets;  
 The consideration for the lease increases by an amount that is commensurate with the stand -alone price for the 
increase in scope, and any appropriate adjustments to that price to reflect the circumstances of the particular contract.  
 
If a modification of finance lease is not accounted for as a separate lease, the Group accounts for the changed lease under 
the following circumstances:  
 If the modification becomes effective on the commencement date of the lease and the lease is classified as an 
operating lease, the Group accounts for it as a new lease from the effective date of the lease modification and measures 
as the net lease investment prior to the effective date of the lease modification as the carrying value of the leased 
asset.  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
280 
 If the modification becomes effective on the commencement date of the lease and the lease is classified as a finance 
lease, the Group accounts for it in accordance with the provisions of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
No. 22 - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instr uments regarding the modification or renegotiation of 
contracts.  
 
34. Debt Restructuring 
34.1 Recognize debt restructuring obligation as a creditor 
 
For debt restructuring carried out by modifying other terms, the Group recognizes and measures the restructured claims in 
accordance with the provisions of ASBE No. 22 - Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments. 
 
35. Important Judgments while Applying Accounting Policy, and Key Assumptions and Uncertainty Factors 
Applied for Accounting Estimate 
During the process of using accounting policy described in note (III), due to the uncertainty in operation activities, the 
group should judge, estimate and assume the book value of the report items which may not be metered reliably. These 
judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on the historical experience of the Group's management and other related 
factors. Differences may exist between the actual results and the Group's estimate.  
 
The Group regularly reviews the above judgments, assumptions and es timations on the basis of continuous operation. If 
the changes of accounting estimate only influence current period, the influence amount will be affirmed during the 
changing period; if it influences the current period and subsequent periods, the influence amount will be recognized in the 
current period and future period.  
 
- Key assumptions and uncertainties used in accounting estimate  
On balance sheet date, key assumptions and uncertainties for performing accounting estimates on book value of assets and 
liabilities in subsequent future periods are:   
Impairment provision for inventories 
Except for contract performance costs, inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. For raw 
materials, the latest or future actual purchase price is used as the basis for determining the net realizable value; For products 
in progress, the net realizable value is determined by the actual selling price of the most recent or post -period finished 
product, less the estimated costs of the current similar  type at the time of completion of the product, the estimated sales 
expenses and related taxes; For finished products, the actual selling price of the latest or future finished product minus the 
estimated selling expenses and related taxes will be incurred, is used as the basis for determining the net realizable value. 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
281 
The Group will regularly conduct a comprehensive stocktaking to review the impairment circumstances on defective, 
obsoleted or slow-moving inventory if any; in addition, the Group's managemen t will regularly review the impairment 
circumstance of inventory with long storage time according to the inventory aging.. Based on the above procedure, the 
Group's management deems that the full provision amounts have been withdrawn for inventory. For det ails, please refer 
to Note (V) 9. 
 
Impairment of accounts receivable 
 
Except for accounts receivable whose credit losses are determined on the basis of individual basis, the Group adopts an 
impairment matrix on a portfolio basis to determine its expected credit loss of the relevant accounts receivable. The Group 
divides the risk characteristics according to the region and object of its business, and divides the relevant accounts 
receivable into different portfolios. Based on the historical loss rate and con sider reasonable and well-founded forward-
looking information in the industry, the Group determines the proportion of corresponding loss reserves for different 
portfolios of various types of accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2024, based on the historically loss rate and consider 
reasonable and well -founded forward -looking information in the industry, the Group determines the corresponding 
proportion of loss provision for accounts receivable. The amount of the provision for expected credit losses will change 
as the estimation of the Group. The details on the provision for expected credit losses of the accounts receivable of the 
Group are given in Note (V) 4.  
 
Useful life and predicted net residual value of fixed asset 
 
The Group's estimation of fixed assets useful life is based on the historical experience of actual usable term of fixed assets 
with similar properties and functions, the estimation of predicted net residual value is the amount obtained currently by 
the Group from the assets after deductin g the anticipated disposal expense based on the anticipated status assuming the 
conditions that fixed assets' predicted useful life expires and fixed assets are at the end of useful life. The Group shall 
conduct the review on the predicted service life and predicted net residual value of fixed assets at least annually. For the 
current reporting period, the Group's management did not see signs either indicating a shortened or extended useful life of 
the Group's fixed asset or indicating a change in predicted net residual value.  
 
Accrued liabilities of product quality warranty 
 
Accrued liabilities of product quality assurance are costs and expenses incurred to meet the established standards of 
product quality assurance obligations to customers in accordance with the product contract; the Group made such an 
estimation according to the predicted claim rate, repair and replacement cost of relevant products. The management deems 
that the current estimation on accrued liabilities of product quality warranty is reasonable, however, the Group will 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
282 
continue to review the conditions of product repairs, and will conduct adjustment if any sign indicating the need to make 
adjustments on accounting estimates.  
 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 
 
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are measured at the ap plicable income tax rate during the 
period when the relevant asset is expected to be recovered or the relevant debt is expected to be paid off.  The expected 
applicable income tax rate is determined according to the relevant current tax regulations and the actual situation of the 
Group. If the estimated income tax rate is different from the original estimate, the management of the Group will adjust it. 
 
The realization of deferred income tax assets mainly depends on the actual future taxable income, taxable temporary 
differences, and the effective tax rate of temporary difference in the future applicable years. If the actual taxable income 
and taxable temporary differences in the future is less than the estimation, or actual tax rate is lower than the estimat ion, 
then the confirmed deferred income tax assets will be reversed and confirmed in the income statement during the 
corresponding period. If the actual taxable income and taxable temporary differences in the future is more than the 
estimation, or actual t ax rate is higher than the estimation, then the deferred tax assets that are partially unrecognized 
deductible losses and deductible temporary differences will be recognized and confirmed in the income statement during 
the corresponding period.  
 
Goodwill impairment 
 
When testing goodwill for impairment, a pre-tax interest discount rate that appropriately reflects the current market time 
value of money and asset-specific risk is determined and the present value of the projected future cash flows of the relevant 
asset group or combination of asset groups containing goodwill is calculated. When the future actual result is different 
from the original estimation, the result of the goodwill impairment test will alter.  
 
36. Significant Alternation in Accounting Policy and Accounting Estimations 
The Ministry of Finance issued the Interpretation No. 17 of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises  (the 
"Interpretation No. 17") and  No. 18 of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises  (the "Interpretation No. 18 ") on 
Octorber 25, 2023 and December 6, 2024 
 
Interpretation No. 17 of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
283 
 
Interpretation No. 17 standardizes the classification of current liabilities and non -current liabilities and the accounting 
treatment of sale and leaseback transactions, which is effective from January 1, 2024. 
 
Regarding the classification of current liabilities and non-current liabilities 
 
Interpretation No. 17 has revised and improved the principles for classifying current and non -current liabilities in 
Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises No. 30 - Presentation of Financial Statements: It clarifies that if an enterprise 
does not have the substantive right to defer the settlement of a liability beyond one year from the balance sheet date, the 
liability shall be classified as a current liability. The subjective possibility of whether the enterprise will exercise the above 
right does no t affect the classification of the liability's liquidity; It clarifies that for liabilities arising from loan 
arrangements of an enterprise, if the enterprise's right to defer the settlement of the liability beyond one year from the 
balance sheet date depends on contractual terms, the contractual terms to be followed by the enterprise before and on the 
balance sheet date and those to be followed after the balance sheet date should be distinguished, and whether there is the 
right to defer the settlement of t he liability on the balance sheet date should be considered; It clarifies that if the 
counterparty to the enterprise's liability has the option to settle the liability with the enterprise's own equity instrument s 
and this option is classified as an equity instrument and recognized separately, the relevant settlement terms are irrelevant 
to the classification of the liability's liquidity; and it clarifies the information disclosure requirements for loan arrangements 
subject to contractual terms and classifie d as non-current liabilities. Enterprises are also required to adjust comparative 
period information when first applying this provision. 
 
After assessment, the Group believes that the adoption of the above provisions will not have a material impact on the 
Group's financial statements. 
 
Regarding the accounting treatment of sale and leaseback transactions 
 
Interpretation No. 17 stipulates that where the transfer of assets in a sale and leaseback transaction is deemed a sale, after 
the commencement of the lease term, the lessee shall not recognize gains or losses related to the right to use obtained from 
the leaseback when determining the lease payments or the changed lease payments in the subsequent measurement of the 
lease liability arising from the sale and leaseback. Where a lease modification results in a reduction of the scope of the 
lease or a shortening of the lease term, the lessee shall recognize any gains or losses related to the partial or full termination 
of the lease in the current period profit or loss, which is not subject to the above restriction. When an enterprise first applies 
this provision, it shall retrospectively adjust the sale and leaseback transactions conducted after the first application of 
Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises No. 21 - Leases. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
284 
After assessment, the Group believes that the adoption of the above provisions will not have a material impact on the 
Group's financial statements. 
 
Interpretation No. 18 of Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 
 
Interpretation No. 18 standardizes the accounting treatment of warranty -type quality guarantees that do not constitute a 
separate performance obligation, which will be effective from December 6, 2024, and allows enterprises to apply it in 
advance from the year of issuance. 
 
Regarding the accounting treatment of warranty -type quality guarantees that do not constitute a separate performance 
obligation 
 
Interpretation No. 18 stipulates that, in accordance with Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises No. 14 - Revenue, 
when accounting for the provision recognized due to warranty -type quality guarantees that do not constitute a separate 
performance obligation, enterprises shall follow the relevant provisions of Accounting Standard for Business Enterprises 
No. 13 - Contingencies. The determined amount of the provision shall be debited to accounts such as "Cost of Main 
Business" or "Other Business Costs" and credited to the "Provision" account. Correspondingly, it shall be presented in the 
items of "Total Operating Costs" in the income statement and "Other Current Liabilities," "Non-current Liabilities Due 
within One Year," and "Provisions" in the balance sheet. When an enterprise first applies this interpretation, if the original 
recognition of warranty -type quality guarant ees was recorded in "Selling Expenses, " the changes in the accounting 
accounts and financial statement items involved in the accounting treatment of such warranty-type quality guarantees shall 
be retrospectively adjusted as a change in accounting policy. T he Group originally recorded the warranty -type quality 
guarantees in "Selling Expenses" and has applied this provision in advance this year. The impact on the relevant items of 
the Group's consolidated income statement for the year 2023 is presented as follows: 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Before restatement Adjustment After restatement 
Total operating costs 49,637,055,845.33 95,712,702.24  49,732,768,547.57  
Selling expenses 10,842,500,778.25 (95,712,702.24)  10,746,788,076.01  
 
In accordance with the Compilation of Application Guidelines for Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises 2024 , 
the Group has changed the presentation of derivative financial instruments that were previously classified as "Financial 
Assets at Fair V alue through Profit or Loss" or "Financial Liabilities at Fair V alue through Profit or Loss" to separate line 
items, and has retrospectively adjusted the comparative data in the financial statements accordingly. The specific impacts 
are presented as follows: 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
285 
The impact on the relevant items of the Group's consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2024, is presented as follows:  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item January 1, 2024 Adjustment January 1, 2024 
Held for trading financial assets 37,380.00 (37,380.00) - 
Derivative financial assets - 37,380.00 37,380.00 
Held for trading financial liabilities 38,079,755.04 (38,079,755.04) - 
Derivative financial liabilities - 38,079,755.04 38,079,755.04 
 
 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
286 
IV. Taxes 
Major Categories of Taxes and Tax Rates 
Category of tax Basis of tax computation Tax rate 
Enterprise income tax Taxable income 25% (Note 1)  
VAT For the taxable product sales revenue or taxable labor revenue, the Company and its domestic subsidiaries are ordinary 
Value-added Tax payers; the V A T payable is the balance of input tax after deducting the deductible output tax. 
6%, 9%, 13% and simple collection rate of 
5%, 3% (Note 2-4)  
City maintenance and construction tax Actual payable turnover tax  7%, 5% 
Education surcharges Actual payable turnover tax  3% 
Local education surcharges Actual payable turnover tax  2% 
 
Note 1: Except that this Company and subsidiaries in China are applicable to the following tax preference, this Company's other subsidiaries in China are applicable to 25% of enterprise 
income tax rate, the overseas subsidiaries are applicable to corresponding local tax rate.  
 
(1) In accordance with the list of High-tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2023 issued by the Leading Group Office of National 
High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on December 28, 2023, the Company was identified as the high -tech enterprise, and valid term is 3 years, and the preferential tax 
period is from 2023 to 2025. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period (2023:15%). 
 
According to the Announcement on the Enterprise Income Tax Policies for Promoting the High-quality Development of Integrated Circuit Industry and Software Industry (Ministry 
of Finance, State Administration of Taxation, National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Industry and Informatio n Technology Announcement [2020] No. 45) 
(hereinafter referred to as " Preferential Tax Policies for Integrated Circuit and Software Industries"), the Company was approved by the tax authorities in May 2024 to pay the 2023 
annual corporate income tax at the rate of 10%. As of the approval date of this report, the Company's preferential income tax in 2024 has not been verified and approved. Therefore, 
the Company's enterprise income tax in 2024 is calculated and paid at the rate of 15% (2023: 10%). 
 
(2) According to the Announcement on Continuation of the Corporate Income Tax Policy for the Western Development (Ministry of Finance, State Administration of Taxation, National 
Development and Reform Commission Announcement [2020] No.23), the subsidiaries of the Company, Chongqing Hikvision Technology  Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 
"Chongqing Technology"), Chongqing Hikvision System Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Chongqing System"), and Chongqing EZVIZ Electronics Ltd. have enjoyed 
preferential tax policies for the development of the western region. Therefore, the current enterprise income tax is calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the 
current reporting period (2023:15%). 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
287 
 
(3) According to the Recording List of the First Batch of identified High-tech Enterprises of Zhejiang Province in 2021 and the list of High-tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by 
the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2024 issued by the Leading Group Office of National High-tech Enterprise Identification Management Work on January 24, 2022 
and December 26, 2024, Hangzhou Fuyang Haikang Baotai Surveillance Technology Service Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Fuyang Baotai") and Hangzhou Hikstorage Technology 
Ltd. ("Hikstorage Technology") , subsidiaries of the Company, are identified as high-tech enterprises, and the valid terms of the identification for both are 3 years and the preferential 
tax period is from 2021 to 2023 and from 2024 to 2026. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting 
period (2023:15%). 
  
(4) In accordance with the List of High-tech Enterprises Identified by the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2022  issued by the leading group office of Zhejiang high -tech 
enterprise identification management work o n January 17, 2022, the Company 's subsidiaries, Hangzhou Hikvision System Technology Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou 
System"), Hangzhou Rayin Technology Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou Rayin Technology"), and Hangzhou Hikfire Technology Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "HikFire 
Technology") were recognized as high -tech enterprises with a valid term of  3 years and the preferential tax period is from 2022 to 2024. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is 
calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period (2023:15%). 
 
(5) In accordance with the List of Second Batch of High -tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by Shanghai Accreditation Agency in 2023 issued by Shanghai High-tech Enterprise 
Identification Office on January 4, 2024, the Company 's subsidiary, Shanghai Goldway Intelligent Transportation System Ltd. was identified as the high -tech enterprise, and valid 
term is 3 years, and the preferential tax period is from 2023 to 2025. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current 
reporting period (2023:15%). 
 
(6) In accordance with the list of High-tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2023 issued by the Leading Group Office of National 
High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on December 28, 2023, the Company's subsidiaries, Hangzhou Hikauto Software Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "HikAuto Software") 
and Hangzhou Hik imaging Technology Ltd. ( hereinafter referred to as  "HikImaging Technology") were identified as the high -tech enterprise, and valid term  is 3 years, and the 
preferential tax period is from 2023 to 2025. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated an d paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period 
(2023:15%). 
 
(7) In accordance with the list of High-tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2023 issued by the Leading Group Office of National 
High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on December 28, 2023, the Company's subsidiary, Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "HikRobot") 
was identified as the high-tech enterprises, and valid term is3 years, and the preferential tax period is from 2023 to 2025. 
 
According to the preferential tax policies for the integrated circuit industry and the software industry and the Announcement No. 10 of 2021 of the Ministry of Industry and Information 
Technology of the People's Republic of China, the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the  State Administration of Taxation, Hikrobot is a 
qualified software enterprise., and is exempted from enterprise income tax in the first and second years after start of profiting and pays enterprise incom e tax at half of the 25% 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
288 
statutory tax rate in the third to fifth years. The year of 2024 is the second year of HikRobot making profits and is exempted from enterprise income tax (2023: tax-exempted). 
 
(8) In accordance with the list of High-tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2022 issued by the Leading Group Office of National 
High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on January 17, 2023, the Company's subsidiary, Hangzhou Hikmicro Sensing Technology Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hikmicro 
Sensing") was identified as the high-tech enterprise with a valid term of 3 years and the preferential tax period is from 2022 to 2024. 
 
In accordance with the Preferential Tax Policies for Integrated Circuit and Software Industries, Hikmicro Sensing is a qualified intergrated circuit company, and is exempted from 
enterprise income tax in the first and second years after start of profiting and pays enterprise income tax at half of the 25% stat utory tax rate in the third to fifth years. The year of 
2024 is the fourth year of Hikmicro Sensing making profits and enjoyed enterprise income tax at half of the 25% statutory tax rate (2023: half of the 25% statutory tax rate). 
 
(9) In accordance with the Announcement on the Filing of High-tech Enterprises Recognized by Zhejiang Provincial Identification Institution in 2022 issued by the Leading Group Office 
of National High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on January 17, 2023, the Company's subsidiary, Hangzhou Hikmicro Software Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hangzhou 
Hikmicro Software") was identified as the high-tech enterprise with a valid term of 3 years and the preferential tax period is from 2022 to 2024. 
 
According to the preferential tax policies for the integrated circuit industry and the software industry and the Announcement No. 10 of 2021 of the Ministry of Industry and Information 
Technology of the People's Republic of China, the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the  State Administration of Taxation, Hangzhou 
Hikmicro Software is a qualified software enterprise., and is exempted from enterprise income tax in the first and second years after start of profiting and pays enterprise income tax 
at half of the 25% statutory tax rate in the third to fifth years. The year of 2024 is the fifth year of Hangzhou Hikmicro Software making profits and enjoyed enterprise income tax at 
half of the 25% statutory tax rate. 
 
According to the preferential tax policies for the integrated circuit industry and the software industry, Hangzhou Hikmicro Software obtained approval from the tax authorities in May 
2024 for exemption from corporate income tax for the year 2023.  
 
(10) In accordance with the Recording List of the Second Batch of identified High -tech Enterprises of Hebei Province in 2022  issued by the Leading Group Office of Hebei Province's 
High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on December 26, 2022, the Company's subsidiary, Sensortech Hebei Technology Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Hebei Sensortech 
") was identified as the high-tech enterprises with a valid term of 3 years and the preferential tax period is from 2022 to 2024. Therefore, the enterprise income tax is calculated and 
paid on the basis of a reduced tax rate of 15% in the current reporting period. (2023:15%) 
 
(11) In accordance with the list of High-tech Enterprises Identified and Reported by the Zhejiang Provincial Accreditation Agency in 2023 issued by the Leading Group Office of National 
High-tech Enterprise Identification Management on December 28, 2023, the Company's subsidiary, Hangzhou EZVIZ Software Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "EZVIZ Software") 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
289 
was identified as the high-tech enterprise, and valid term is 3 years, and the preferential tax period is from 2023 to 2025. 
 
According to the preferential tax policies for the integrated circuit industry and the software industry and the Announcement No. 10 of 2021 of the Ministry of Industry and Information 
Technology of the People's Republic of China, the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation, EZVIZ Software 
is a qualified software enterprise, and is exempted from enterprise income tax in the first and second years after start of profiting and pa ys enterprise income tax at half of the 25% 
statutory tax rate in the third to fifth years. The year of 202 4 is fifth year of EZVIZ Software making profits and enjoyed the preferential enterprise income tax at half of the 25% 
statutory tax rate (2023: half of the 25% statutory tax rate). 
 
(12) In accordance with the provisions of the Announcement on Further Supporting the Development of Small and Micro-sized Enterprises and Individual Businesses (Announcement No. 
12 of 2023 by the Ministry of Finance and the State Taxation Administration), Hangz hou Furui Technology Ltd. ("Furui Technology"), Henan Hua'an Security Services Co., Ltd . 
(hereinafter referred to as "Henan Hua'an Security Services") , Hangzhou Hikimaging Electronics Ltd., Zhengzhou Hikvision Technology Ltd., Anhui Hikvision Urban Operati on 
Service Co., Ltd., Shijiazhuang Haishi Digital Technology Ltd., Hangzhou Rayin Detection Technology Ltd. and Hangzhou Xingrong Information Technology Ltd. qualify as small 
and micro-sized profitable enterprises and are eligible for the preferential corporate income tax policy for small and micro-sized enterprises. The taxable income up to CNY 3 million 
is reduced to 25% of the taxable income and is subject to a corporate income tax rate of 20%. Therefore, the corporate income tax for this year is calculated and paid at a reduced rate 
of 5%. 
 
Note 2: In accordance with the requirements of the Notice on Software Product Value-added Tax Policy (Cai Shui [2011] No. 100) promulgated by the Ministry of Finance and the State 
Administration of Taxation, as for se lf-developed software products sales of the Company, Hangzhou System, HikRobot, HikAuto Software, Hangzhou EZVIZ Software, Hikst orage 
Technology, Hikimaging Technology, HikFire Technology, Hangzhou Rayin Technology, Hangzhou Microimage Software, Henan Haik ang Hua 'An BaoQuan Electronics Co., Ltd. 
(hereinafter referred to as "Hua'An BaoQuan Electronics") , Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Ltd., Fuyang Baotai, Zhejiang Hailai Yunzhi Technology Co., Ltd., and Hebei Sensortech, 
the V AT shall be calculated and paid with tax rate of 13% at first, then the portion with actual tax bearing excess 3% shall be refunded after State Administration of Taxation reviews. 
 
Note 3: In accordance with the Several Policies on Promoting the Recovery and Development of Difficult Industries in the Service Industry  Fa Gai Cai Jin [2022] No. 271, in 2022, 
taxpayers in the production and life service industries will be deducted by 10% and 15% respectively according to the deductible input tax deductible for the current period (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Additional Deduction Policy"). In accordance with the Announcement on clarifying policies such as VAT reduction and exemption for small-scale taxpayers (Ministry 
of Finance, State Administration of Taxation Announcement [2023] No. 1), In 2023, the current deductible input tax for production and living services taxpayers will continue to be 
deducted by 5% and 10% of the tax payable respectively. The policy is valid until December 31, 2023. 
 
The Company's part of branches, and the subsidiaries, Hangzhou Hikvision Technology Ltd.'s part of branches, Chongqing System, Hangzhou Hikvision Financial Leasing Ltd. ( formerly 
known as Hangzhou Hikvision Security Equipment Leasing Service Co., Ltd. ), Anhui Hikvision Urban Operation Service Co.,  Ltd., a part of Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., 
Ltd.(hereinafter referred to as "EZVIZ Network")'s branches, Zhejiang Haikang City Service Co., Ltd. Luliang Branch, Henan Hu aAn Bao Quan Intelligent Development Co., 
Ltd.( hereinafter reffered to as "Hua'an Bao Quan Intelligent") and its Luoyang Branch, Hua'an Security Services, Urumqi HaiShi Xin'An Electronic Technology Ltd., Chengdu Hikvision 
Digital Technology Ltd., Hangzhou EZVIZ Software, Hangzhou branch of Zhejiang Hikfire Technology Ltd., Wuhan Hikvision Technology Ltd., some branches of Hangzhou Haikang 
Intelligent Technology Ltd., and Guizhou Haikang Transport Big Data Ltd. met the provisions of the V AT Additional Deduction Policy and were entitled to additional deduction preferential 
tax policy of input tax in 2023 and ceased the related preferential treatment in 2024. 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
290 
 
Note 4: In accordance with the Notice of the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on the Additional VAT Deduction Policy for Integra ted Circuit Enterprises 
(Finance and Taxation [2023] No. 17), from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2027, enterprises in integrated circuit design, production, packaging and testing, equipment and materials 
are allowed to deduct an additional 15% of the current deductible input tax to deduct the tax payable. The Company's subsidiary, Hikmicro Sensing complies with the provisions of the 
policy and deducts an additional 15% of the current deductible input tax to deduct the tax payable.  
 
V. Notes to Items in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
1. Cash and Bank Balances   
Unit: RMB  
 Item 
Closing balance Opening balance (Restated) 
Foreign currency amount Exchange rate for 
conversion  RMB amount  Foreign currency 
amount 
Exchange rate for 
conversion RMB amount 
Cash:       
RMB - -    2,759.07   - -    1,678.63   
EUR 32,977.56 7.5257   248,180.23   147,128.30  7.8592    1,156,310.77   
USD 19,048.11 7.1884 136,926.36 30,104.54  7.0827    213,221.43   
Other currencies   294,157.68 -  - 414,544.09 
       
Bank balance:       
RMB - - 30,906,055,381.57 - - 45,212,743,399.98 
USD 525,069,475.29 7.1884 3,774,409,416.15 348,625,559.51 7.0827   2,469,210,250.34  
EUR 71,544,059.18 7.5257 538,419,126.19 113,802,623.62 7.8592   894,397,579.52   
Other currencies   715,042,893.37 - - 824,341,197.50 
       
Other currency funds:       
RMB - - 293,311,312.74 - - 179,985,499.57  
USD 1,925,634.95 7.1884 13,842,234.25 2,700,309.07  7.0827  19,125,479.05  
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
291 
 Item 
Closing balance Opening balance (Restated) 
Foreign currency amount Exchange rate for 
conversion  RMB amount  Foreign currency 
amount 
Exchange rate for 
conversion RMB amount 
EUR 159,997.07 7.5257 1,204,089.92 565,119.25  7.8592    4,441,385.18   
Other currencies - - 28,521,859.50 - -   32,128,116.48   
       
Total   36,271,488,337.03   49,638,158,662.54 
Including: deposited in overseas banks   796,652,984.09     942,602,817.26  
 
Details of other currency funds: 
Unit: RMB  
 
ItemItem 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Foreign currency 
amount 
Exchange rate for 
conversion RMB amount Foreign currency amount Exchange rate for 
conversion RMB amount 
Capitals with limitations:       
Deposits for letter of credit - - - - -   5,807,814.00   
Bank acceptance bill - -   4,342,362.58   - -   5,729,976.08   
Deposits for letter of guarantee - -   187,030,125.71   - -   150,406,759.09   
Other security deposits - -   15,572,718.45   - -   17,821,752.36   
Other capitals with limitations - -   11,500,750.00   - -   30,425,005.23   
Subtotal     218,445,956.74       210,191,306.76   
       
Capitals without limitations:       
Deposit in payment instrument provided by third-party and 
in securities account - - 118,364,276.15 - - 25,453,125.41 
Other currency funds in USD 1,309.50 7.1884 9,413.21 - - - 
Other currency funds in EUR 7,952.79 7.5257 59,850.31 4,586.74 7.8592 36,048.11 
Subtotal   118,433,539.67     25,489,173.52   
       
Total     336,879,496.41       235,680,480.28  
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
292 
2. Derivative Financial Assets   
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Forward foreign exchange contract   26,775,923.93   37,380.00  
Total    26,775,923.93   37,380.00  
 
On December 31, 2024, derivative financial assets are forward foreign exchange contracts, and they are not designated as hedging instruments, and the gains or losses arising from changes 
in their fair values are directly included in the current profit and loss. 
 
3. Notes Receivable 
(1) Categories of notes receivable 
Unit: RMB 
Category Closing balance Opening balance 
Bank acceptance bill   2,365,648,400.91   2,199,710,776.69   
Finance company acceptance bill   150,839,104.68   123,274,741.72   
Commercial acceptance bill   206,108,636.87   283,085,857.33   
Total   2,722,596,142.46   2,606,071,375.74   
 
(2) At the end of the current reporting period, the Group had no pledged notes receivable.  
(3) At the end of the current reporting period, notes receivable endorsed or discounted by the Group but not yet due at the balance sheet day 
Unit: RMB 
Item Amount not derecognized as of December 31, 2024 
Bank acceptance bill   1,227,896,081.96   
Finance company acceptance bill   46,990,625.40   
Commercial acceptance bill   45,274.00   
Total 1,274,931,981.36 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
293 
 
As of December 31, 2024, the Group gave RMB1,193,485,939.57 (2023: RMB1, 075,118,808.52) undue bank acceptance bills to suppliers for endorsement, RMB46,990,625.40 (2023: 
RMB47,808,575.05) undue acceptance bill of the finance company to suppliers for endorsement, RMB45,274.00 (2023: RMB500,000.00) undue commercial acceptance bill to suppliers 
for endorsement. Discounted RMB34,410,142.39 (2023: RMB34,566,243.97) undue bank acceptance to banks. Since the Group has not transferred almost all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of financial assets, the Group has not terminated its confirmation. For details, please refer to Note (V) 24 and Note (V) 31.3. 
 
(4) Classified disclosure by method of provision for bad debts.  
Unit: RMB 
Category 
Closing balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Proportion (%) Amount Proportion (%)  Amount 
Provision for bad debts of notes receivables on a single basis - - - - - 
Provision for bad debts of notes receivables by portfolios 2,725,650,950.56   100.00   3,054,808.10     0.11    2,722,596,142.46   
Total 2,725,650,950.56   100.00   3,054,808.10     0.11    2,722,596,142.46   
 
Unit: RMB 
Category 
Opening balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Proportion (%) Amount Proportion (%)  Amount 
Provision for bad debts of notes receivables on a single basis - - - - - 
Provision for bad debts of notes receivables by portfolios  2,608,563,766.39 100.00   2,492,390.65   0.10   2,606,071,375.74   
Total  2,608,563,766.39 100.00   2,492,390.65   0.10   2,606,071,375.74   
 
Provision for bad debts of notes receivables by portfolios 
Unit: RMB 
Category 
Closing balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Bank acceptance bill 2,365,648,400.91 - - 
Non-bank acceptance bill 360,002,549.65 3,054,808.10 0.85 
Total 2,725,650,950.56 3,054,808.10 0.11 
 
Explanation of provision for bad debts of notes receivables by portfolios: 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
294 
 
The Group classifies notes receivable into different portfolios based on the characteristics of the acceptors.The Group believes that there is no significant credit risk to the acceptors of 
bank acceptance bills held by the Group, so no loss provision is made. 
 
(5) Provision for bad debts of notes receivables. 
Unit: RMB 
Provision for bad debts Expected credit loss for the entire duration 
Balance as of January 1, 2024   2,492,390.65 
Provision for/ Reverse of the current year 562,417.45 
Balance as at December 31, 2024 3,054,808.10 
 
(6) Situation of provision 
Unit: RMB 
Category Opening balance 
Amount of changes changed in the current reporting period 
Closing balance Provision or reverse Transfer or write-off 
Notes receivable   2,492,390.65  562,417.45 -   3,054,808.10  
Total   2,492,390.65  562,417.45 -   3,054,808.10  
 
4. Accounts Receivable 
(1) Disclosure by aging 
Unit: RMB 
Aging Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Within credit period 21,885,251,680.47 21,238,508,394.91 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 13,413,302,524.64 12,622,668,221.07 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 3,351,710,793.78 2,520,053,396.18 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 1,353,841,038.81 1,029,311,890.05 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period 664,972,595.95 579,297,343.23 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
295 
Aging Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period 1,155,004,826.72 1,018,167,722.39 
Total 41,824,083,460.37 39,008,006,967.83 
Less: Credit impairment provision 3,913,954,724.95 3,191,433,456.39 
Book value 37,910,128,735.42 35,816,573,511.44 
 
(2) Classified disclosure of credit loss by provision methods 
Unit: RMB 
Category 
Closing balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Proportion (%) Amount Proportion (%)  Amount 
Provision for credit loss on a single basis - - - - - 
Provision for credit loss by portfolios 41,824,083,460.37 100.00 3,913,954,724.95 9.36 37,910,128,735.42 
Total 41,824,083,460.37 100.00 3,913,954,724.95 9.36 37,910,128,735.42 
 
Unit: RMB 
Category 
Opening balance (restated) 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Proportion (%) Amount Proportion (%)  Amount 
Provision for credit loss on a single basis - - - - - 
Provision for credit loss by portfolios 39,008,006,967.83 100.00 3,191,433,456.39 8.18 35,816,573,511.44 
Total 39,008,006,967.83 100.00 3,191,433,456.39 8.18 35,816,573,511.44 
 
Provision for credit loss by portfolios for accounts receivable 
Unit: RMB 
Customer 
Closing balance 
Carrying amount Credit loss provision Proportion (%) 
Portfolio A 3,382,037,568.78 84,935,468.35 2.51  
Portfolio B 28,763,549,515.79 3,562,845,181.45 12.39   
Portfolio C 9,678,496,375.80 266,174,075.15 2.75  
Total  41,824,083,460.37 3,913,954,724.95 9.36  
Description of credit loss provision by portfolios for accounts receivable 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
296 
  
As part of the Group's credit risk management, the Group uses an impairment matrix to determine expected credit losses based on the ageing of accounts receivable beyond the credit 
period, and divides the risk characteristics account receivables into portfolio A, portfolio B and portfolio C according to the risk characteristics of business areas and objects. And the 
Company uses an impairment matrix to determine expected credit losses of each portfolio based on the ageing of accounts receivable beyond the credit period. These three portfolios 
involve a large number of customers with the same risk characteristics. Aging information is able to reflect the solvency of these three types of customers when the accounts receivable 
are due. 
 
As of December 31, 2024 and January 1, 2024, the credit risk and expected credit losses during the duration of accounts receivable from portfolio A are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Aging 
Closing balance Opening balance (Restated) 
Expected average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Bad debt 
provision  Book value  Expected average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value Bad debt  
provision Book value 
Within credit period 0.07 2,705,323,605.53 1,944,444.46 2,703,379,161.07 0.02 3,907,968,313.68 852,571.17 3,907,115,742.51 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 2.26 554,426,756.05 12,545,412.20 541,881,343.85 1.90   676,630,538.84 12,829,329.20 663,801,209.64 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 32.98 71,438,423.74 23,559,515.25  47,878,908.49 30.36 50,103,162.12 15,213,054.67 34,890,107.45 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 70.25 13,320,979.94 9,358,292.92  3,962,687.02 63.25 12,070,966.60 7,635,014.88 4,435,951.72 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00 11,703,561.65 11,703,561.65 - 100.00   20,084,869.22  20,084,869.22 - 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00 25,824,241.87 25,824,241.87 - 100.00 11,222,150.03 11,222,150.03 - 
Total  2.51 3,382,037,568.78 84,935,468.35 3,297,102,100.43 1.45 4,678,080,000.49 67,836,989.17 4,610,243,011.32 
 
As of December 31, 2024 and January 1, 2024, the credit risk and expected credit losses during the duration of accounts receivable from portfolio B are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Aging 
Closing balance Opening balance  
Expected average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Bad debt 
provision  Book value  Expected average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Bad debt  
provision  Book value  
Within credit period 0.88 10,826,359,201.03 94,976,583.91 10,731,382,617.12 0.80 10,001,831,444.99 80,372,286.33 9,921,459,158.66 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 5.21 11,759,406,126.15 612,261,723.49 11,147,144,402.66   4.69 10,816,276,812.71 506,914,857.87 10,309,361,954.84 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 21.84 3,187,571,282.52 696,103,763.26 2,491,467,519.26 23.34 2,416,434,272.21 564,052,271.46 1,852,382,000.75 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 48.51 1,321,386,954.11 640,970,300.26 680,416,653.85 42.77 993,475,956.99 424,940,431.68 568,535,525.31 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period 76.24 632,604,288.10 482,311,146.65  150,293,141.45  69.63 522,837,171.09 364,030,874.76 158,806,296.33 
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
297 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period 100.00 1,036,221,663.88  1,036,221,663.88  - 100.00 920,056,259.62 920,056,259.62 - 
Total  12.39  28,763,549,515.79 3,562,845,181.45 25,200,704,334.34 11.14 25,670,911,917.61 2,860,366,981.72 22,810,544,935.89 
 
As of December 31, 2024 and January 1, 2024, the credit risk and expected credit losses during the duration of accounts receivable from portfolio C are as follows:  
Unit: RMB 
Aging 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Expected average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Bad debt 
provision Book value  Expected average 
loss rate (%) Carrying value  Bad debt provision Book value  
Within credit period 0.25  8,353,568,873.91 21,130,742.84 8,332,438,131.07  0.28  7,328,708,636.24 20,812,836.46 7,307,895,799.78 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 6.05 1,099,469,642.44 66,495,406.43 1,032,974,236.01 6.19   1,129,760,869.52 69,879,355.77 1,059,881,513.75 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 51.18 92,701,087.52 47,448,581.31 45,252,506.21 50.85   53,515,961.85 27,212,412.79 26,303,549.06 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 91.34 19,133,104.76 17,475,677.40  1,657,427.36  92.83   23,764,966.46 22,060,264.82 1,704,701.64 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  20,664,746.20 20,664,746.20  -    100.00   36,375,302.92 36,375,302.92 - 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period  100.00  92,958,920.97 92,958,920.97  -    100.00   86,889,312.74 86,889,312.74 - 
Total  2.75  9,678,496,375.80 266,174,075.15 9,412,322,300.65 3.04 8,659,015,049.73 263,229,485.50 8,395,785,564.23 
 
(3) Bad debt provision 
Unit: RMB 
Category Opening balance 
Amount of changes changed in the current reporting period Difference due to 
foreign currency 
statement translation 
Closing balance Provision  Recollect or reverse Transfer or write-off 
Accounts receivable 3,191,433,456.39 976,548,145.21 47,789,545.95 203,689,533.26 (2,547,797.44) 3,913,954,724.95 
Total 3,191,433,456.39 976,548,145.21 47,789,545.95 203,689,533.26 (2,547,797.44) 3,913,954,724.95 
 
(4) Top five debtors based on corresponding closing balance of accounts receivable and contract assets (including the part included in other non-current assets) 
At the end of the current period, the aggregate amount of the Group's accounts receivable and contract assets (including the part included in other non-current assets) of top five companies 
amounted to RMB2,630,005,597.63 (of which the total amount of accounts receivable is RMB1,252,553,158.90 and the amount of contract assets is RMB1,377,452,438.73), accounting 
for 5.86% of the total year-end balance of accounts receivable and contract assets (including the part included in other non-current assets), and the amount of provision for bad debts was 
RMB265,120,104.87.
                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report  
Notes to Financial Statements  
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
298 
5. Contract Assets 
(1) Details of contract assets 
Unit: RMB  
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provisions for 
impairment Book value Carrying amount Provisions for 
impairment Book value 
Constructions 2,821,485,040.98 23,550,579.80 2,797,934,461.18 2,847,993,321.71 21,993,021.25 2,826,000,300.46 
Maintenance 
services 253,714,700.92 2,071,050.36 251,643,650.56 227,366,849.25  1,945,550.21 225,421,299.04 
Less: 
Contract 
assets that are 
included in 
other non-
current assets 
(Note (V) 22) 
2,081,248,707.05 17,493,381.00 2,063,755,326.05 1,893,506,565.03 15,397,380.73 1,878,109,184.30 
Total    993,951,034.85   8,128,249.16    985,822,785.69   1,181,853,605.93    8,541,190.73   1,173,312,415.20 
 
(2) The classification and disclosure of the method of provision for impairment of contract assets  (including the part 
included in other non-current assets) 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance 
Carrying amount Provisions for impairment Book value 
Amount Proportion 
(%)  Amount Provision 
proportion (%) Amount 
Provision for impairment on a single item - - - - - 
Provision for impairment by portfolio 3,075,199,741.90 100.00 25,621,630.16 0.83 3,049,578,111.74 
Total 3,075,199,741.90 100.00 25,621,630.16 0.83 3,049,578,111.74 
 
Item 
Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provisions for impairment Book value 
Amount Proportion 
(%)  Amount Provision 
proportion (%) Amount 
Provision for impairment on a single item - - - - - 
Provision for impairment by portfolio 3,075,360,170.96 100.00 23,938,571.46 0.78 3,051,421,599.50 
Total 3,075,360,170.96 100.00 23,938,571.46 0.78 3,051,421,599.50 
 
(3) Provision for bad debts of contract assets (including the part included in other non-current assets) in the current period 
 Unit: RMB 
Category Opening 
balance 
Amount of changes changed in the current reporting 
period 
Difference due 
to foreign 
currency 
statement 
translation 
Closing     
balance Provision Transfer or 
write-off 
Contract assets 23,938,571.46 1,680,465.16 - 2,593.54 25,621,630.16 
Total 23,938,571.46 1,680,465.16 - 2,593.54 25,621,630.16 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
299 
6. Receivables for Financing 
 
(1) Receivables for financing by categories 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Bank acceptance bill    2,128,242,910.57     1,594,219,832.62   
Certificates of accounts receivable claims   163,405,333.48    
Total   2,291,648,244.05     1,594,219,832.62   
(2) At the end of the reporting period, the Group had no pledged receivables for financing. 
(3) At the end of the reporting period, receivables for financing endorsed or discounted by the Group that have not yet 
expired on the balance sheet date. 
Unit: RMB  
Item Derecognized amount as of December 31, 2024 
Bank acceptance bill  2,344,850,710.82 
Certificates of accounts receivable claims   10,546,904.23   
Total 2,355,397,615.05 
 
As of December 31, 2024, the Group endorsed to suppliers bank acceptance bills amounting to RMB2,098,075,845.62 
that had not yet matured, and certificates of accounts receivable claims amounting to RMB10,546,904.23 that had not yet 
matured, and discounted to banks bank acceptance bills amounting to RMB246,774,865.20that had not yet matured. 
(4) The Group believes that the likelihood of non-payment upon maturity of the bank acceptance bills and certificates of 
accounts receivable claims it holds to be very low, and there is no significant credit risk, so no loss provision is made. 
7. Prepayment 
(1) Prepayments by aging analysis 
                           Unit: RMB  
Aging 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Proportion (%) Carrying amount Proportion (%) 
Within 1 year 624,943,424.42 94.03 439,229,846.71 86.44 
1-2 years 24,319,470.26 3.66 54,598,580.98 10.74 
2-3 years 11,026,833.66 1.66 9,132,956.08 1.80 
Over 3 years 4,312,864.67 0.65 5,190,022.15 1.02 
Total  664,602,593.01 100.00 508,151,405.92  100.00  
     
(2) Closing balances of top five prepayments parties 
As of December 31, 202 4, the Group's top five balances of prepayments amounted to RMB 101,949,950.71, accounting 
for 15.34% of total closing balance of prepayments.  
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
300 
8. Other Receivables 
(1) Other receivables by aging  
 Unit: RMB  
Aging Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Within contract period 438,536,805.11  497,353,510.04  
Within 1 year  71,996,644.17  58,190,602.54 
1-2 years  19,987,742.95  20,606,423.68 
2-3 years 14,942,465.41  4,357,328.94 
3-4 years  3,327,986.69  3,216,083.19 
Over 4 years  15,860,010.64  20,110,646.73 
Total 564,651,654.97  603,834,595.12 
Less: Credit impairment provision 33,307,048.47  31,922,559.19 
Book value 531,344,606.50 571,912,035.93 
 
(2) Other receivables by nature of the payment 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance of carrying amount Opening balance of carrying amount (restated) 
Guarantee deposits 240,519,111.89 217,477,539.62  
Tax rebates 130,609,720.61 27,765,998.37 
Temporary payments for receivables 116,667,509.52 109,941,412.72 
Repurchase payments for restricted share  - 169,968,816.44 
Others 76,855,312.95 78,680,827.97 
Total  564,651,654.97 603,834,595.12 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
301 
(3) Accrual for bad debts of other receivables  
Unit: RMB 
Bad debts allowance 
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 
Total Expected credit losses in the 
next 12 months 
Expected credit loss for the entire 
duration (credit impairment has not 
incurred) 
Expected credit loss for the entire 
duration (credit impairment has 
occurred) 
Balance on January 1, 2024 2,161,771.42 5,709,846.71 24,050,941.06 31,922,559.19 
Balance on January 1, 2024 
In the current reporting period:     
--Transfer into stage 2 (312,940.96) 312,940.96 -    -    
-- Transfer into stage 3 - (2,505,851.45) 2,505,851.45 -    
--Accrual/( recollect or reverse) in the current 
reporting period (43,350.56) 3,759,139.41 (1,899,179.64) 1,816,609.21 
Derecognition of financial assets (including direct 
write-downs) and transfer out - - (213,993.50) (213,993.50) 
Other changes  (218,126.43) - - (218,126.43) 
Balance on December 31, 2024 1,587,353.47 7,276,075.63 24,443,619.37 33,307,048.47 
 
(4) Provision for bad debts of other receivables 
Unit: RMB 
 
Top five debtors based on corresponding closing balance of other receivables 
At the end of current period, the aggregate amount of other receivables of the top five debtors of the Group was RMB146,450,707.35, accounting for 25.94% of the total balance of other 
receivables at the end of the year, and the provision for bad debts amounted to RMB114,373.25. 
 
Category  Opening balance  
Amount of changes in the current reporting period Difference resulted from foreign 
currency statements conversion  Closing balance 
Provision  Recollect or reverse  Transfer or write-off 
Other receivables 31,922,559.19 7,212,313.69   5,395,704.48  213,993.50 (218,126.43) 33,307,048.47 
Total  31,922,559.19 7,212,313.69  5,395,704.48  213,993.50 (218,126.43) 33,307,048.47 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
302 
9. Inventories 
(1) Categories of inventories 
Unit: RMB  
Category 
Closing balance Opening balance(restated) 
Carrying amount 
Provision for decline in value of 
inventories/ Impairment provision 
for contract performance cost  
Book value Carrying amount 
Provision for decline in value of 
inventories/ Impairment provision 
for contract performance cost 
Book value 
Raw materials 6,112,813,706.01  321,520,672.33  5,791,293,033.68   7,912,250,689.30 368,431,917.68 7,543,818,771.62 
Work-in-progress  722,550,293.30   -     722,550,293.30  561,630,556.81 - 561,630,556.81 
Finished goods 13,151,518,051.53 990,672,547.73  12,160,845,503.80 11,653,219,740.75 950,498,742.24 10,702,720,998.51 
Contract performance cost 444,030,393.50 8,007,266.17 436,023,127.33 409,869,715.64 6,595,745.76 403,273,969.88 
Total 20,430,912,444.34 1,320,200,486.23 19,110,711,958.11 20,536,970,702.50 1,325,526,405.68 19,211,444,296.82 
 
(2) Provision for decline in value of inventories 
Unit: RMB  
Category Opening balance The amount accrued in the 
current reporting period 
The amount reversed or resold in the current 
reporting period 
Effect on conversion of financial statements 
denominated in foreign currencies Closing balance 
Raw materials  368,431,917.68  77,907,559.96  124,805,923.85  (12,881.46) 321,520,672.33 
Finished goods 950,498,742.24 373,644,906.42  289,327,664.23  (44,143,436.70)  990,672,547.73 
Contract performance cost 6,595,745.76 5,185,172.85 3,773,652.44  - 8,007,266.17 
Subtotal 1,325,526,405.68 456,737,639.23  417,907,240.52  (44,156,318.16)  1,320,200,486.23 
 
The write-offs of provision for inventories in the current reporting period are due to use or sale of inventories. 
 
(3) Descriptions of the amortization amount of the contract performance cost for the current reporting period 
For the contract performance cost recognized as an asset, the Group adopts the same basis as the recognition of revenue related to the asset, and includes it in the profit or loss for the 
current period when commercial goods or service have been transferred in accordance with the contract requirements and the acceptance certificate of the other party has been obtained. 
The amount included in profit or loss for the current period in 2024 is RMB711,095,338.26. 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
303 
10. Non-current Assets Due within One Year 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Long-term receivables due within one year (Note (V) 12) 894,327,647.82 1,079,721,006.23  
Total 894,327,647.82 1,079,721,006.23  
11. Other Current Assets 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Deductible VAT input 901,841,078.74 733,273,484.32 
Prepaid corporate income tax 90,832,918.17 132,978,082.06 
Prepaid tariff 18,347,927.67 32,945,213.90 
Others 60,044,728.52 62,396,836.47 
Total 1,071,066,653.10   961,593,616.75 
12. Long-term Receivables 
(1) Details of long-term receivables 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provision for 
impairment Book value Carrying amount Provision for impairment Book value 
Financial leases receivables 286,093,285.46  77,540,673.10  208,552,612.36  265,985,187.99   53,601,885.63   212,383,302.36  
Including: Unrealized income from financing  5,907,102.54 - 5,907,102.54    7,730,078.24  -  7,730,078.24  
Installments business   1,051,389,224.08   349,486,719.21   701,902,504.87   1,191,642,272.96   235,773,626.86   955,868,646.10  
Including: Unrealized income from financing 13,619,170.58  - 13,619,170.58  26,937,454.05 - 26,937,454.05 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
304 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provision for 
impairment Book value Carrying amount Provision for impairment Book value 
Employee housing loan  364,325,718.68  -  364,325,718.68   450,167,676.53  -  450,167,676.53  
Including: Unrealized income from financing  31,285,136.32  -  31,285,136.32   42,598,988.47  -  42,598,988.47  
Subtotal 1,701,808,228.22 427,027,392.31  1,274,780,835.91 1,907,795,137.48 289,375,512.49 1,618,419,624.99 
Less: Non-current assets due within one year (Note (V) 10) 1,320,172,837.77  425,845,189.95  894,327,647.82  1,367,395,229.26  287,674,223.03  1,079,721,006.23 
Total  381,635,390.45  1,182,202.36  380,453,188.09  540,399,908.22  1,701,289.46 538,698,618.76  
  
(2) Disclosure by method of provision for bad debts 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provision for 
impairment Book value Carrying amount Provision for 
impairment Book value 
Provision for bad debts by portfolio (including the portion 
due within one year) 
1,701,808,228.22 427,027,392.31  1,274,780,835.91 1,907,795,137.48 289,375,512.49 1,618,419,624.99 
Including: portfolio of employees 364,325,718.68 - 364,325,718.68 450,167,676.53 - 450,167,676.53 
         Portfolio of financial leasing and installment 
collection customers 
1,337,482,509.54 427,027,392.31  910,455,117.23 1,457,627,460.95 289,375,512.49 1,168,251,948.46 
Total 1,701,808,228.22 427,027,392.31  1,274,780,835.91 1,907,795,137.48 289,375,512.49 1,618,419,624.99 
 
Portfolio of employees 
The Group believes that the employees corresponding to the long -term receivable employee housing loans held by the Group all have labor relations with the Group and the Group 
assesses that the relevant debtors have good credit records, and the Group believes that there is no significant credit risk and therefore no loss of provision is made. 
 
Portfolio of financial leasing and installment collection customers 
As of December 31, 2024, the credit risk and expected credit losses of long-term receivables relevant to financial leasing and installment collection customers are as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Aging 
Closing balance 
Amounts Credit loss provision Estimated average loss rate (%) 
Within credit period 379,383,102.82  2,656,826.86  0.70  
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 208,713,298.89  9,609,275.09  4.60  
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
305 
Aging 
Closing balance 
Amounts Credit loss provision Estimated average loss rate (%) 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 198,492,819.37  39,460,372.49  19.88  
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 227,883,932.22  94,708,562.23  41.56  
3-4 years after exceeding credit period 147,897,491.66  105,480,491.06  71.32  
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period 175,111,864.58  175,111,864.58  100.00  
 Total 1,337,482,509.54  427,027,392.31 31.93 
 
 
(3) Provision for bad debts 
Unit: RMB 
 
 
13. Long-term Equity Investment 
Unit: RMB 
The invested entity Opening 
balance 
                       Increase/ Decrease in the current reporting period 
Closing balance 
Closing 
balance  
for 
impairment 
provision 
Additional 
investments 
(note2) 
Investment 
 reduction 
Investment profit (loss) 
recognized under the 
equity Method 
Adjustment to 
other 
comprehensive  
income 
Other  
changes 
 in equity 
(note1) 
Declaration of  
cash dividends 
 or profit  
distribution 
Impairment 
provision  others 
1. Joint venture companies 
Hangzhou Haikang 
Intelligent Industrial Equity 
Investment Fund Partnership 
791,356,253.1
4 
 
- - 19,685,451.64 - 57,022,183.13 - - - 868,063,887.91 - 
Category  Opening balance  
Amount of changes in the current reporting period Difference resulted from foreign 
currency statements conversion  Closing balance 
Provision  Recollect or reverse  Transfer or write-off 
Long term receivables 289,375,512.49 138,280,648.52 628,768.70 - - 427,027,392.31 
Total  289,375,512.49 138,280,648.52 628,768.70 - - 427,027,392.31 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
306 
The invested entity Opening 
balance 
                       Increase/ Decrease in the current reporting period 
Closing balance 
Closing 
balance  
for 
impairment 
provision 
Additional 
investments 
(note2) 
Investment 
 reduction 
Investment profit (loss) 
recognized under the 
equity Method 
Adjustment to 
other 
comprehensive  
income 
Other  
changes 
 in equity 
(note1) 
Declaration of  
cash dividends 
 or profit  
distribution 
Impairment 
provision  others 
(L.P.)  
Zhejiang City Digital 
Technology Ltd.  
29,635,485.61 - - (3,765,849.98) - - (5,792,258.59) - - 20,077,377.04 - 
Zhejiang Haishi Huayue 
Digital Technology Ltd. 
14,067,281.65 - - (362,700.73) - - - - - 13,704,580.92 - 
Guangxi Haishi Urban 
Operation Management Ltd.  
12,450,335.88 - - (1,000,853.49) - - - - - 11,449,482.39 - 
Xuzhou Kangbo Urban 
Operation Management 
Service Ltd.  
11,052,348.36 - - (206,602.05) - - - - - 10,845,746.31 - 
Others 5,172,387.15 10,500,000.00 - (11,155,902.19) - - - - - 4,516,484.96 - 
Subtotal 863,734,091.79 10,500,000.00 - 3,193,543.20 - 57,022,183.13 (5,792,258.59) - - 928,657,559.53 - 
2. Associated companies 
Beijing Taifang Technology 
Co. Ltd. (Note 1) 
36,942,210.69 - - (3,332,699.09) - - - - - 33,609,511.60 - 
Jiaxin Haishi JiaAn Zhicheng 
Technology Ltd.  
27,941,495.40 - - 1,120,872.94 - - - - - 29,062,368.34 - 
Zhiguang Hailian Big Data 
Technology Ltd.  
23,245,373.00 - - 1,452,571.42 - - (300,000.00) - - 24,397,944.42 - 
Terapark (Nanjing) Ltd.  18,257,785.52 - - (1,806,705.74) - 1,090,599.45 - - - 17,541,679.23 - 
                                                                                                                   Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
307 
The invested entity Opening 
balance 
                       Increase/ Decrease in the current reporting period 
Closing balance 
Closing 
balance  
for 
impairment 
provision 
Additional 
investments 
(note2) 
Investment 
 reduction 
Investment profit (loss) 
recognized under the 
equity Method 
Adjustment to 
other 
comprehensive  
income 
Other  
changes 
 in equity 
(note1) 
Declaration of  
cash dividends 
 or profit  
distribution 
Impairment 
provision  others 
Others  180,983,931.45 3,000,000.00 - 30,041,408.14 - 279,928,988.08 - - - 493,954,327.67 - 
Subtotal 287,370,796.06 3,000,000.00 - 27,475,447.67 - 281,019,587.53 (300,000.00) - - 598,565,831.26 - 
Total  1,151,104,887.8
5  13,500,000.00 - 30,668,990.87 - 338,041,770.66 (6,092,258.59) - - 1,527,223,390.79 - 
Note 1: Changes in other equities during the reporting period was due to the changes in equity caused by increasing or decreasing capital of the investee by other shareholders. 
Note 2: During the reporting period, the Group made an additional investment of RMB 10,500,000.00 in a joint venture while maintaining its subscribed equity interest ratio unchanged. 
Additionally, the Group newly invested RMB 3,000,000.00 in an associate, acquiring a 30% equity stake. 
 
14. Other Non-current Financial Assets 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Investments in equity instruments (Note) 472,000,082.76 472,184,937.66 
Total  472,000,082.76 472,184,937.66 
 
Note: It refers to the Group's equity investments. The Group has no control, joint control or significant influence over these invested companies. During the current reporting period, the 
Group received a cash dividend of RMB61,241,171.99 from the investees. (2023: RMB65,923,840.33) and recognized it as current profit and loss. Please refer to Note (V) 52 for details. 
 
                                                       Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
308 
15. Fixed Assets 
(1) Details of fixed assets 
Unit: RMB 
Item Buildings and 
constructions 
General-purpose 
equipment 
Special-purpose 
equipment 
Transportation 
vehicles Total 
I. Total original carrying amount      
1. Opening balance (restated) 10,718,244,713.16  2,063,240,112.41  3,621,135,777.30  106,962,561.92 16,509,583,164.79 
2. Increase in the current 
reporting period 
 3,622,041,774.04   473,070,615.96   1,021,757,163.88   10,825,607.94   5,127,695,161.82  
1) purchase  116,585,618.70   469,875,616.21  566,266,251.04  10,825,607.94  1,163,553,093.89 
2) transferred to 
construction in progress 
 3,505,456,155.34   3,194,999.75   454,850,445.12  -  3,963,501,600.21  
3) transferred from 
inventory 
 
- - 640,467.72 - 640,467.72 
3. Decrease in the current 
reporting period  
14,141,833.41 49,272,757.13 124,019,016.32  7,472,082.60 194,905,689.46 
     1) disposal or write-off 14,141,833.41 49,272,757.13 87,374,960.15 7,472,082.60 158,261,633.29 
     2) transferred from 
construction in progress - - 36,644,056.17 - 36,644,056.17  
    4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
(23,734,108.54)  (22,032,397.28)  (1,379,985.60) (3,550,912.44) (50,697,403.86) 
    5. Closing Balance 14,302,410,545.25   2,465,005,573.96   4,517,493,939.26   106,765,174.82  21,391,675,233.29  
II. Accumulated depreciation      
    1. Opening balance 
(restated)  1,900,211,554.76  1,066,700,552.92  1,961,192,410.16  73,166,304.78 5,001,270,822.62 
    2. Increase in the current 
reporting period  532,988,200.72   317,336,506.25   631,103,472.80   10,303,545.24   1,491,731,725.01  
     1) accrual  532,988,200.72   317,336,506.25   631,103,472.80   10,303,545.24   1,491,731,725.01  
3. Decrease in the current 
reporting period 6,814,691.00 41,220,698.49 97,054,551.45 5,978,344.74 151,068,285.68 
1) disposal or write- off 6,814,691.00  41,220,698.49 69,587,837.31 5,978,344.74 123,601,571.54 
2) transferred to 
construction in progress - - 27,466,714.14 - 27,466,714.14 
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
(1,864,088.94) (9,636,345.23) (758,033.48) (1,752,857.50) (14,011,325.15) 
5. Closing balance  2,424,520,975.54   1,333,180,015.45   2,494,483,298.03   75,738,647.78   6,327,922,936.80  
III. Total book value       
Closing balance on book value 11,877,889,569.71   1,131,825,558.51   2,023,010,641.23   31,026,527.04  15,063,752,296.49  
Opening balance on book value 
(restated)  8,818,033,158.40  996,539,559.49  1,659,943,367.14   33,796,257.14  11,508,312,342.17 
 
(2) As of December 31, 2024, the book value of the special-purpose equipment rent out through operating leasing by the 
Group is RMB54,026,704.89. 
(3) Fixed assets of which certificates of title have not been granted as of December 31, 2024 
Unit: RMB  
Item Carrying 
amount Reason for certificates of title not granted 
Office space for branch offices 128,504,791.84 In the process of obtaining the real estate certificates 
Wuhan Intelligence Industrial Park (Phase I) 912,530,497.27 In the process of obtaining the real estate certificates 
Xi'an Science and Technology Park Project 1,455,012,196.03 In the process of obtaining the real estate certificates 
Total 2,496,047,485.14  
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
309 
16. Construction in Progress 
(1) Details of construction in progress 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provision Book value Carrying amount Provision Book value 
Wuhan Science and Technology Park Project 1,657,649,090.38  - 1,657,649,090.38  415,106.61  - 415,106.61  
EZVIZ Intelligent Manufacturing Chongqing Base 
Project(Infrastructure Part) 1,144,333,377.23 - 1,144,333,377.23 628,214,692.80 - 628,214,692.80 
HikRobot Intelligent Manufacturing (Tonglu) Base 
Project 498,800,343.68 - 498,800,343.68 20,299,490.56 - 20,299,490.56 
HikRobot Product Industrial Base Construction 
Project 199,752,968.31 - 199,752,968.31 61,417,606.81  - 61,417,606.81  
Infrared Thermal Imaging Complete Machine 
Products Industrial Base 166,668,535.02 - 166,668,535.02 70,932,363.98  - 70,932,363.98  
Wuhan Intelligence Industry Park Project (Phase II) 13,854,531.11 - 13,854,531.11 5,671,116.16 - 5,671,116.16 
Xi'an Science and Technology Park Project - - - 1,189,310,650.73 - 1,189,310,650.73 
Shijiazhuang Science and Technology Park Project 
(Phase II) - - - 276,247,602.73 - 276,247,602.73 
Chongqing Science and Technology Park Project 
(Phase III) - - - 257,682,402.52 - 257,682,402.52 
Others 1,018,414,535.48 - 1,018,414,535.48 1,797,460,041.56 - 1,797,460,041.56 
Total 4,699,473,381.21 - 4,699,473,381.21 4,307,651,074.46 - 4,307,651,074.46 
 
  
                                                                                                              Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
310 
(2) Changes in significant construction in progress during the current reporting period 
Unit: RMB 
 
Item Budget 
(RMB 0,000) Opening balance Increase in the current 
reporting period 
Transferred to fixed 
assets during the current 
reporting period 
Closing balance 
Amount invested as 
a proportion of 
budget amount (%) 
Construction 
in Progress 
(%) 
Source of funds 
Wuhan Science and 
Technology Park Project 189,850.00 415,106.61 1,657,233,983.77  - 1,657,649,090.38 87.31% 87.31% Self-financing 
EZVIZ Intelligent 
Manufacturing 
Chongqing Base Project 
(Infrastructure Part) 
117,011.00 628,214,692.80 516,118,684.43 - 1,144,333,377.23 97.80% 97.80% Self-financing/ 
raised fund 
HikRobot Intelligent 
Manufacturing (Tonglu) 
Base Project 
107,105.00 20,299,490.56 478,500,853.12 - 498,800,343.68 46.57% 46.57% Self-financing 
HikRobot Product 
Industrial Base  
Construction Project 
101,346.00 61,417,606.81 138,335,361.50 - 199,752,968.31 19.71% 19.71% Self-financing 
Infrared Thermal 
Imaging Complete 
Machine Products 
Industrial Base 
90,216.00 70,932,363.98 95,736,171.04 - 166,668,535.02 18.47% 18.47% Self-financing 
Wuhan Intelligence 
Industry Park Project 
Hangzhou Innovation 
Industry Park (Phase II) 
140,460.00 5,671,116.16 8,183,414.95 - 13,854,531.11 0.99% 0.99% Self-financing 
Xi'an Science and 
Technology Park Project 152,557.00 1,189,310,650.73 271,269,582.66 1,460,580,233.39 - 95.74% 100.00% Self-financing 
Shijiazhuang Science and 
Technology Park Project 
(Phase II) 
37,483.00 276,247,602.73 80,666,336.75 356,913,939.48 - 95.22%  100.00% Self-financing 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
311 
17. Right-of-use Assets 
Unit: RMB  
Items Building and 
construction 
General-purpose 
equipment 
Special-purpose 
equipment 
Transportation 
vehicles Total 
I. Total original carrying amount       
1. Opening balance  923,239,274.81   11,431,418.12   117,800,728.19   23,818,132.30  1,076,289,553.42  
2. Increased   390,546,590.79   110,068.19   -     10,935,529.58   401,592,188.56  
 (1) New lease   390,546,590.79   110,068.19   -     10,935,529.58   401,592,188.56  
3. Decreased  249,670,336.47  265,028.82  91,934,144.20 5,493,686.57 347,363,196.06 
 (1) The lease contract 
expires or terminates early 249,670,336.47  265,028.82  91,934,144.20 5,493,686.57 347,363,196.06 
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements denominated 
in foreign currencies 
(29,252,683.11) (1,813,757.19) - (1,302,241.17) (32,368,681.47) 
5. Closing balance 1,034,862,846.02   9,462,700.30   25,866,583.99   27,957,734.14  1,098,149,864.45  
II. Accumulated depreciation      
1. Opening balance   450,980,701.22   300,315.09   89,996,638.11   13,950,502.34   555,228,156.76  
2. Increased   272,174,025.72   10,228,679.30  4,524,164.49 8,155,978.82   295,082,848.33  
 (1) Provisions  272,174,025.72   10,228,679.30  4,524,164.49 8,155,978.82  295,082,848.33  
3. Decreased  167,186,335.82  265,028.82  91,934,144.20 5,493,686.57 264,879,195.41 
 (1) The lease contract 
expires or terminates early 167,186,335.82  265,028.82 91,934,144.20 5,493,686.57 264,879,195.41 
4. Effect on conversion of 
financial statements denominated 
in foreign currencies 
(15,924,975.16) (907,058.96) - (587,934.90) (17,419,969.02) 
5. Closing balance  540,043,415.96   9,356,906.61   2,586,658.40   16,024,859.69   568,011,840.66  
III. Total book value      
1. Closing balance on book value   494,819,430.06   105,793.69   23,279,925.59   11,932,874.45   530,138,023.79  
2. Opening balance on book value   472,258,573.59   11,131,103.03   27,804,090.08   9,867,629.96   521,061,396.66  
 
18. Intangible Assets 
(1) Details of construction in progress 
Unit: RMB 
Item Land use right Intellectual property 
right Application software Franchise Total 
I. Total original carrying amount      
1. Opening balance  1,715,411,561.60  274,154,371.83 416,681,260.92 110,245,727.75   
2,516,492,922.10 
2. Increased  68,190,841.13   4,479,079.11   43,681,536.86   1,822,301.03  118,173,758.13  
(1) Purchase  68,190,841.13   4,479,079.11   43,681,536.86   1,822,301.03  118,173,758.13  
3. Decreased  -     -    6,195,110.29  -    6,195,110.29 
(1)Disposal or write-off - - 6,195,110.29 - 6,195,110.29 
4. Effect on conversion of financial 
statements denominated in foreign 
currencies 
 -     (83,282.97)  (1,388,667.85)   (25,608.79)  (1,497,559.61) 
5. Closing balance 1,783,602,402.73  278,550,167.97 452,779,019.64 112,042,419.99 2,626,974,010.33   
II. Total accumulated amortization      
1. Opening balance   170,369,804.14  98,491,176.89 370,414,597.74 24,706,728.39 663,982,307.16 
2. Increased  37,592,424.49   35,357,858.45   21,241,730.18   5,807,880.50   99,999,893.62  
(1)Accrual  37,592,424.49   35,357,858.45   21,241,730.18   5,807,880.50   99,999,893.62  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
312 
Item Land use right Intellectual property 
right Application software Franchise Total 
3. Decreased - - 5,983,159.56 - 5,983,159.56 
(1)Disposal or write-off - - 5,983,159.56 - 5,983,159.56 
4. Effect on conversion of financial 
statements denominated in foreign 
currencies 
 -     (72,405.05)   (1,254,181.26)   (19,644.06)   (1,346,230.37)  
5. Closing balance  207,962,228.63  133,776,630.29 384,418,987.10 30,494,964.83   756,652,810.85  
III. loss provision      
1. Opening balance  - - - 42,034,063.49 42,034,063.49 
2. Closing balance - - - 42,034,063.49 42,034,063.49 
Ⅳ. Total book value      
1. Closing balance on book value 1,575,640,174.10  144,773,537.68 68,360,032.54   39,513,391.67 1,828,287,135.99  
2. Opening balance on book value  1,545,041,757.46  175,663,194.94   46,266,663.18   43,504,935.87  1,810,476,551.45  
 
(2) At the end of the current reporting period, the land use right of the Group that has not completed the title certificate is 
nil. 
19. Goodwill 
(1) Goodwill book value 
Unit: RMB 
The name of the investee or the matter 
that forming a goodwill 
Opening 
balance 
Increased 
 
Decreased 
 
Effect on conversion of 
financial statements 
denominated in foreign 
currencies 
Closing 
balance 
Wuhu Sensortech Intelligent Technology 
Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Wuhu Sensortech") and Hebei 
Sensortech 
92,088,117.87 - - - 92,088,117.87 
SISTEMAS Y SERVICIOS DE 
COMUNICACIÓN, S.A. DE C.V. 81,236,394.36 - - 1,212,346.54 82,448,740.90 
Henan HuaAn Baoquan Intelligence 
development Ltd. and its subsidiaries 61,322,871.63 - - - 61,322,871.63 
Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Ltd. 59,060,454.06 - - - 59,060,454.06 
Zhejiang Zhiyuan Fire Safety 
Engineering Ltd.  8,199,253.77 - - - 8,199,253.77 
BK EESTI AKTSIASELTS 4,726,554.16 - -  (200,568.23) 4,525,985.93 
SIA "BK Latvia" 4,719,995.03 - -  (200,289.90) 4,519,705.13 
Total 311,353,640.88 - - 811,488.41  312,165,129.29 
 
 
(2) Information about the asset group or asset group combination to which the goodwill belongs 
Name The composition and basis of the asset group or 
portfolio to which it belongs 
Whether it is consistent with 
previous years 
Wuhu Sensortech and Hebei Sensortech 
The portfolio of the assets generates cash inflows 
independently. 
Yes 
SISTEMAS Y SERVICIOS DE  
COMUNICACIÓN, S.A. DE C.V.  Yes 
Henan HuaAn Baoquan Intelligence 
development Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
Yes 
Hangzhou Kuangxin Technology Ltd. Yes 
Zhejiang Zhiyuan Fire Safety Engineering Ltd.  Yes 
BK EESTI AKTSIASELTS Yes 
SIA "BK Latvia"  Yes 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
313 
(3) Goodwill impairment provision 
When the Group conducts impairment test on goodwill at the end of the reporting period,  the key assumptions adopted 
and their basis are as follows: 
 
The recoverable amount of asset group portfolios containing apportioned goodwill is determined according to the present 
value of the estimated future cash flow of the relevant asset group portfolios. The forecast period for future cash flows is 
5 years. The projection of future cash flows is based on management's estimate of sales revenue, cost of sales and operating 
expenses for the expected period based on past performance and expectations of m arket developments. The cash flow 
growth rate over 5 years is 0-2%. 
 
During the reporting period, the Group did not find that the recoverable amount of the  relevant asset group portfolios 
including the apportioned goodwill was lower than its book value, so  it is considered that there is no need to accrue 
impairment loss for goodwill. 
 
20. Long-term Deferred Expenses 
Unit: RMB 
Invested unit Opening 
Balance Increased Amortized Other decreased 
amount 
Difference of 
foreign currency 
translation  
Closing balance 
Improvement 
expenditure for 
leased fixed asset 
134,762,545.46 78,489,865.00 79,816,489.15 - (1,879,298.72) 131,556,622.59 
Employee 
housing loan 
deferred interest 
42,598,988.47 6,476,901.90 17,299,277.22 491,476.83 - 31,285,136.32 
Total  177,361,533.93 84,966,766.90 97,115,766.37 491,476.83 (1,879,298.72) 162,841,758.91 
 
21. Deferred Tax Assets/ Deferred Tax Liabilities 
(1) Deferred tax assets that are not presented on net off basis 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Deductible temporary 
differences Deferred tax assets Deductible temporary 
differences Deferred tax assets 
Provision for impairment 
losses of assets 1,069,364,511.58 262,572,804.77 1,127,769,340.63 278,268,231.18 
Provision for credit loss 4,124,476,014.55  871,658,710.55  3,364,947,416.28 704,178,085.23 
Share-based payments - - 93,168,926.31 16,404,683.77 
Provisions 222,850,155.25 42,567,907.88 135,644,054.99 24,189,557.95 
Accrued but unsettled 
liabilities 2,328,549,255.13 397,756,108.86 2,515,576,691.84 426,431,441.31 
Unrealized profit from inter-
group transactions 3,007,410,744.33 451,057,918.47 2,578,365,430.99 367,414,352.61 
Changes in the fair value of 
derivative financial 
instruments 
1,874,341.64 468,585.41 38,079,755.04 9,519,938.76 
Deferred income 868,928,757.73 138,068,886.25 940,537,242.40 127,045,105.84 
Changes in fair value of 
other non-current financial 
assets 
64,034,397.24 9,605,159.59 32,396,750.76 4,859,512.61 
Difference in depreciation of 
fixed assets and difference 
in amortization of intangible 
assets 
186,042,413.56 30,689,292.90 199,086,488.75 32,012,352.33 
Tax deductible losses 1,104,881,983.80 174,500,339.85 1,205,938,357.65 184,742,525.11 
Lease liabilities 542,520,611.31 79,492,726.88 517,071,628.81 81,703,353.99 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
314 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Deductible temporary 
differences Deferred tax assets Deductible temporary 
differences Deferred tax assets 
Others 151,226,802.47 47,687,727.75 79,735,281.12 23,121,972.50 
Total 13,672,159,988.59 2,506,126,169.16 12,828,317,365.57 2,279,891,113.19 
 
 
(2) Deferred tax liabilities that are not presented on net off basis 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Taxable temporary 
differences Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary 
differences Deferred tax liabilities 
Difference in depreciation of 
fixed assets and difference in 
amortization of intangible 
assets 
1,404,309,520.48  245,623,102.73  1,446,155,125.82 257,662,359.02 
Long term investment –
partnership accounted by the 
equity method 
268,063,887.91 40,209,583.19 191,356,253.14  28,703,437.97 
Changes in the fair value of 
derivative financial 
instruments 
26,775,923.93 6,693,980.98 37,380.00 9,345.00 
Changes in the fair value of 
other non-current financial 
assets 
19,420,700.00 4,855,175.00 19,420,700.00 4,855,175.00 
Right-of-use assets 530,138,023.79 77,298,681.61 521,061,396.66 80,828,988.24 
Valuation and appreciation of 
assets of business 
combinations not under 
common control 
139,474,285.68 34,868,571.42 174,342,857.16 43,585,714.29 
Others 11,688,743.69 3,097,280.69 47,107,004.45 15,740,059.70 
Total 2,399,871,085.48 412,646,375.62 2,399,480,717.23 431,385,079.22 
 
(3) Deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities that are presented at the net amount after offset 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Offset amount at the end 
of the reporting period 
Deferred tax assets or 
liabilities at the net 
amount after offset 
Offset amount at the 
beginning of the 
reporting period 
Deferred tax assets or 
liabilities at the net 
amount after offset 
Deferred tax assets 299,935,012.10 2,206,191,157.06 301,518,101.04 1,978,373,012.15 
Deferred tax liabilities 299,935,012.10 112,711,363.52  301,518,101.04 129,866,978.18 
 
 
(4) Details of unrecognized deferred tax assets 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Deductible temporary differences 348,425,118.87 342,665,221.23 
Deductible loss 4,872,004,375.75 3,281,013,576.44 
Total 5,220,429,494.62 3,623,678,797.67 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
315 
(5) Deductible losses for unrecognized deferred tax assets will expire in the following years 
Unit: RMB 
Year Closing balance Opening balance 
2024 - 15,999,871.35 
2025 5,064,844.90 6,519,258.67 
2026 21,423,245.81 24,119,133.46 
2027 33,535,700.07 38,699,273.23 
2028 305,106,077.53 382,611,825.49  
2029 and beyond 4,506,874,507.44 2,813,064,214.24 
Total 4,872,004,375.75 3,281,013,576.44 
 
22. Other Non-current Assets     
                                           
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying amount Provision Book value Carrying amount Provision Book value 
Contract assets 2,081,248,707.05 17,493,381.00 2,063,755,326.05 1,893,506,565.03 15,397,380.73 1,878,109,184.30 
Prepayments for 
real estate 135,783,923.33 - 135,783,923.33 962,718,172.95 - 962,718,172.95 
Prepayments for 
acquisition of 
land 
89,318,973.58 - 89,318,973.58 1,049,973.59 - 1,049,973.59 
Prepayments for 
equipment 61,129,209.00 - 61,129,209.00 68,421,659.50 - 68,421,659.50 
Prepayments for 
infrastructure 3,122,181.73 - 3,122,181.73 8,032,635.16 - 8,032,635.16 
Others 51,370.95 - 51,370.95 2,017,718.89 - 2,017,718.89 
Total 2,370,654,365.64 17,493,381.00 2,353,160,984.64 2,935,746,725.12 15,397,380.73 2,920,349,344.39 
23. Assets with Restriction in Ownership or Use Rights 
Unit: RMB 
Item Book value at the end of the current reporting period Cause of restriction 
Cash and bank balances 218,445,956.74 Various guarantee deposits and other restricted funds 
Notes receivable 1,274,931,981.36 Endorsed to the supplier, or discounted to the bank 
Accounts receivable 352,621,694.25 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Contract assets  128,422,846.09 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Fixed assets 54,026,704.89 Fixed assets leased out under operating leases 
Intangible assets 12,166,524.79 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Other non-current assets 1,276,495,354.49 Pledge for long-term borrowings 
Total  3,317,111,062.61  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Book value at the beginning of the current reporting 
period Cause of restriction 
Cash and bank balances 210,191,306.76 Various guarantee deposits and other restricted funds 
Notes receivable 1,172,749,062.48 Endorsed to the supplier, discounted to the bank, and 
pledged for issuing bank acceptance bills 
Receivables for financing 42,274,830.03 Pledged for issuing bank acceptance bills 
Accounts receivable 320,648,995.89 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Contract assets  129,223,004.39 Pledged for long-term borrowings 
Fixed assets 79,633,944.01 Fixed assets leased out under operating leases 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
316 
Item Book value at the beginning of the current reporting 
period Cause of restriction 
Intangible assets 37,374,930.65 Pledged and mortgage for long-term borrowings 
Other non-current assets 1,500,999,221.99 Pledge for long-term debts 
Total  3,493,095,296.20  
 
24. Short-term Borrowings 
(1) Categories of short-term borrowings 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Credit loan 997,485,670.23 2,084,385,782.09 
Discounted but not expired notes (Note (V) 3) 34,410,142.39 34,566,243.97 
Total  1,031,895,812.62 2,118,952,026.06 
 
(2) As of December 31, 2024, the Group did not have any overdue short-term loans that were failed to repay. 
25. Derivative Financial Liabilities 
Unit: RMB  
Item  Closing balance Opening balance 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,874,341.64 38,079,755.04 
total  1,874,341.64 38,079,755.04 
 
As of December 31, 2024, derivative financial liabilities are forward foreign exchange contracts, which are not designated 
as hedging instruments, measured at fair value and their changes are recognized in profit and loss for the current period. 
26. Notes Payable  
List of accounts payable 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Bank acceptance bill 1,197,128,746.56 1,163,687,279.58 
Total  1,197,128,746.56 1,163,687,279.58 
 
As of December 31, 2024, the Group did not have any unpaid matured notes payable. 
27. Accounts Payable 
(1) List of accounts payable 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Payments for goods 19,158,300,660.13 18,669,058,955.74 
Payables on project equipment 1,027,002,447.56 494,426,932.35 
Total 20,185,303,107.69 19,163,485,888.09 
 
(2) As of December 31, 2024, the Group did not have any significant accounts payable with aging above one year. 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
317 
28. Contract Liabilities 
(1) List of contract liabilities 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Advanced receipts from product sales 2,541,743,559.81  2,411,948,613.09 
Advanced receipts from construction settlement payment 342,197,373.57  267,231,078.24  
Advanced receipts from other services payment 544,032,069.70  328,951,851.34 
Subtotal 3,427,973,003.08 3,008,131,542.67 
Less: Contract liabilities included in other non-current liabilities 
(Note (V) 38) 74,029,948.84 30,140,767.27 
Total  3,353,943,054.24 2,977,990,775.40 
 
(2) As of the end of the 2024, the Group has no significant contract liabilities with an aging period exceeding one year. 
(3) Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis on the Above Contract Liabilities: 
Advanced receipts from product sales are prepayments for goods by customers and sales rebates provided to distributors. 
Revenue will be recognized when the goods are shipped to or delivered to the customer, and sales rebates provided to 
resellers will be recognized when resellers use sales rebates to offset the price. 
 
Advanced receipts from construction settlement payment are the part of the contract price received or receivable from the 
customer for the construction project according to the contract according to the contract provisions in excess of the 
cumulative completed performance obligations, and the revenue will be recognized according to the performance progress 
during the contract period. 
 
Advanced receipts from other services payment are the cloud service fees paid in advance by some customers and the part 
of the contract price received or receivable from custom ers for operation and maintenance according to the contract 
provisions that exceeds the cumulative completed performance obligations, and the revenue will be recognized according 
to the performance progress during the service period. 
 
(4) The amount of RMB 2,977,990,775.40 in the contract liabilities at the beginning of the year has been recognized as 
revenue during this year. It is expected that RMB 30,140,767.27 will be recognized as revenue in 2025 and beyond. The 
year-end contract liabilities are expected to recognize RMB 3,353,943,054.24 as revenue within the next year and RMB 
74,029,948.84 in 2026 and beyond. 
29. Payroll Payable 
(1) Details of payroll payable 
Unit: RMB  
Item Opening balance 
(restated) 
Increase in the 
current reporting 
period 
Decrease in the 
current reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
1. Short-term remuneration 6,031,274,769.74 18,261,307,521.20 18,737,146,923.04  5,555,435,367.90 
2. Termination benefits – defined 
contribution scheme 89,196,511.04 1,470,873,139.52 1,449,089,184.36  110,980,466.20 
Total 6,120,471,280.78 19,732,180,660.72 20,186,236,107.40 5,666,415,834.10 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
318 
(2) List of Short-term remuneration 
Unit: RMB 
Item Opening balance 
(restated) 
Increase in the current 
reporting period 
Decrease in the current 
reporting period Closing balance 
1. Wages or salaries, 
bonuses, allowances and 
subsidies 
5,563,702,232.42 15,194,989,269.67 15,805,423,620.56  4,953,267,881.53 
2. Staff welfare  612,991.96 624,569,199.47 594,563,244.14   30,618,947.29  
3. Social insurance 
contributions 38,766,515.01 756,566,713.74 748,481,673.20   46,851,555.55  
Including: 
Medical insurance 36,814,275.30 717,254,802.38 710,325,452.18   43,743,625.50  
Injury insurance 1,744,358.44 35,358,160.08 34,063,784.28   3,038,734.24  
Maternity insurance  207,881.27 3,953,751.28 4,092,436.74   69,195.81  
4. Housing funds - 1,408,489,560.73 1,404,655,026.62  3,834,534.11  
5. Labor union and 
education fund 428,193,030.35 276,692,777.59 184,023,358.52   520,862,449.42  
Subtotal 6,031,274,769.74 18,261,307,521.20 18,737,146,923.04  5,555,435,367.90  
 
(3) List of defined contribution plan  
  Unit: RMB 
Item Opening balance 
(restated) 
Increase in the 
current period 
Decrease in the 
current period Closing balance 
1. Basic pension insurance 87,283,204.70 1,416,767,806.77 1,397,068,691.06  106,982,320.41  
2. Unemployment insurance 1,913,306.34 54,105,332.75 52,020,493.30  3,998,145.79  
Subtotal 89,196,511.04 1,470,873,139.52 1,449,089,184.36  110,980,466.20  
 
Note: The Group participates in pension insurance and unemployment insurance plans established by government agencies 
in accordance with regulations. According to these plans, the Group pays monthly fees to these plans in proportion to the 
payment base. The Group has no other material o bligation for the payment of pension benefits beyond the contributions 
described above, and corresponding expenses were booked into current profits and losses or corresponding assets. 
 
In 2024, the Group shall pay RMB 1,416,767,806.77 and RMB 54,105,332.75 to the pension insurance plan and 
unemployment insurance plan respectively (2023: RMB1,148,680,658.64 and RMB43,814,265.77). As of December 31, 
2024, the Group had fees payables of RMB 106,982,320.41 and RMB 3,998,145.79 (December 31, 2023: 
RMB87,283,204.70 and RMB1,913,306.34), which were due but not paid during the reporting period for pension and 
unemployment insurance plans. 
  
30. Taxes Payable  
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Corporate income tax 913,040,846.83 990,235,254.45 
Value-added tax 404,940,647.59 476,152,883.91 
City construction and maintenance tax 26,303,950.83 28,555,595.11 
Education surcharges 11,664,982.93 11,969,432.94 
Local education surcharges 8,323,731.96 8,314,407.76 
Others  171,661,935.88 107,322,613.69 
Total 1,535,936,096.02 1,622,550,187.86 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
319 
31. Other Payables 
31.1 Categories 
      Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance  
Dividend payables 186,793.11 253,957,413.29 
Other payables  3,528,172,251.37 3,657,655,427.77 
Total  3,528,359,044.48 3,911,612,841.06 
 
31.2 Dividend payables 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Dividends of incentive restricted shares - 155,844,168.00 
Dividends payable to minority shareholders 186,793.11 98,113,245.29 
Total 186,793.11 253,957,413.29 
 
31.3 Other payables 
(1) List of other payables according to the nature of the payment 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Unexpired commercial acceptance bills that were endorsed (Note 
(V) 3) 1,240,521,838.97 1,123,427,383.57 
Accrued expenses 1,527,405,326.55 1,682,496,005.40 
Guarantee and deposit fees 477,797,205.49 445,461,469.36 
Collection and payment on behalf 209,269,289.66 294,323,679.79 
Other expense payable 73,178,590.70 111,946,889.65 
Total 3,528,172,251.37 3,657,655,427.77 
 
(2) As of December 31, 2024, the Group did not have any significant other payables aging over one year. 
 
32. Non-current Liabilities Due within One Year 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance  
Long-term borrowings due within one year (Note (V) 34) 586,589,318.45 5,627,525,836.16 
Lease liabilities due within one year (Note (V) 35) 180,403,223.06 184,722,447.43 
Long-term payables due within one year 38,147.40 2,411,931.37 
Total 767,030,688.91 5,814,660,214.96 
 
  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
320 
33. Other Current Liabilities 
Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Subscription payment of restricted shares - 1,095,194,890.62 
Output V A T to be transferred 377,117,275.65 386,027,153.57 
Total 377,117,275.65 1,481,222,044.19 
 
34. Long-term Borrowings 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Pledged loan (Note 1) 1,033,059,164.49 1,259,495,605.29 
Mortgage loan - 320,694,296.02 
Credit loan (Note 2) 4,672,715,153.96 12,959,458,895.86 
Other borrowing (Note 3) - 28,000,000.00 
Less: Long-term loans due within one year (Note (V) 32) 586,589,318.45 5,627,525,836.16 
Total 5,119,185,000.00 8,940,122,961.01 
 
Note 1: As of December 31, 2024, the pledged loan was mainly obtained by the Group with all the rights and benefits 
pledged under relevant PPP Projects. The maturity period is from June 20, 2028 to March 26, 2040, the above annual 
interest rate of the loan is variable interest rate, ranging from 3.61% to 4.25%. 
 
Note 2: As of December 31, 2024, the maturity period of credit loan is from July 22, 2025  to Feburary 8, 2028, and the 
annual interest rate ranges from 1.75% to 3.40%  
 
Note 3: During 2016, the Grou p and CDB Development Fund Ltd. (CDBDF) jointly injected capital into Hangzhou 
Hikvision Electronics Co., Ltd. ("Hangzhou Electronics"), a subsidiary of the Group. Pursuant to the capital injection 
agreement, CDBDF would not participate in senior management personnel such as directors, and it would either take part 
in decision-making or make significant influence on Hangzhou Electronics. The Group shall pay a 1.2% annualized return 
to CDBDF through dividends or interest payments, and the Group is required to redeem its equity holdings from CDBDF 
in installments each year from 2021 to 2024. Therefore, the capital injection by CDBDF is treated as a long-term loan. As 
the end of the reporting period, the Group has cumulatively redeemed the equity of Hangzhou Electronics held by CEBDF 
for a total amount of RMB 190 million, and the balance of the loan is zero (December 31, 2023: RMB 28 million). 
35. Lease Liabilities 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Lease liabilities  555,835,972.74 528,728,313.56 
Less: Lease liabilities due within one year (Note (V) 32) 180,403,223.06  184,722,447.43  
Total  375,432,749.68  344,005,866.13  
 
The Group's lease liabilities are analysed according to the maturity period of the remaining undiscounted contractual 
obligations as follows: 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Within 1 year 191,378,600.65 197,066,597.67 
1- 5 years 375,285,265.86 324,095,420.30 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
321 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
Over 5 years 29,402,566.24 41,329,449.20 
Total  596,066,432.75 562,491,467.17 
 
36. Provisions 
 Unit: RMB  
Item Closing balance Opening balance  
Product quality warranty 283,376,593.23 197,386,826.08 
Return payment payable 21,873,456.48 15,697,212.23 
Total 305,250,049.71 213,084,038.31 
 
37. Deferred Income 
Unit: RMB  
Item Opening balance Increase in current 
reporting period 
Decrease in current 
reporting period Closing balance 
Government Subsidies (Note (VIII) 1) 966,259,592.34  291,742,286.11  383,489,804.92  874,512,073.53 
Total  966,259,592.34  291,742,286.11  383,489,804.92  874,512,073.53 
 
38. Other Non-current Liabilities 
  Unit: RMB  
Item  Closing balance Opening balance 
Subscription for restricted stocks -  1,642,792,335.93  
Contract liabilities  (Note (V), 28) 74,029,948.84  30,140,767.27  
Total  74,029,948.84  1,672,933,103.20  
 
39. Share Capital                                                          
Unit: RMB  
  Opening balance 
Changes for the current reporting period 
Closing balance New issue 
of shares  
Bonus 
issue  
Restricted 
repurchased shares  Others  Subtotal 
Total shares 9,330,600,931.00 - - (97,402,605.00)) - (97,402,605.00) 9,233,198,326.00 
 
Note: According to the Proposal on Terminating the Implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and Repurchasing 
and Canceling Relevant Restricted Shares,  that is reviewed and approved by  the 20th meeting of the 5 th session of the 
Board of Directors, the 18th meeting of the 5th session of the Board of Supervisors and 2023 Annual General Meeting, it is 
agreed the company terminate the implementation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and repurchase and cancel all 
restricted stocks granted but not yet unlocked. In 2024, the Company reduced its share capital by RMB97,402,605.00 and 
its capital reserve by RMB2,796,377,189.55. The Company completed the deregistration on August 15, 2024. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
322 
40. Capital Reserves   
   Unit: RMB  
Item  Opening balance 
Increase in the current 
reporting period 
 (Note 1) 
Decrease in the current 
reporting period  
(Note 2) 
Closing balance 
Share capital 
premium  6,989,138,129.40 1,383,877,950.50 2,812,856,534.90 5,560,159,545.00 
Other capital 
reserves 875,765,634.12  1,127,958,356.12 1,382,239,270.18 621,484,720.06 
Total 7,864,903,763.52 2,511,836,306.62 4,195,095,805.08 6,181,644,265.06 
 
Note 1: The increase of RMB1,382,239,270.18 in the share capital premium in the current period was due to the transfer 
of other capital reserves to share capital premiums due to the exercise of equity-settled share-based payments. 
 
During the current peri od, the Group received an international operation subsidy of RMB 2,007,056.47 from its actual 
controlling party, China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "CETC"). This increased 
the Group's share capital premium by RMB 1,517,235.64 and minority interests by RMB 489,820.83. Please refer to Note 
(XI), 5(4) for details. 
 
The increase in share capital premium in the current reporting period of RMB121, 444.68 is due to the Group's acquisition 
of the original minority shareholders' equity in its subsidiaries, Hua'an Security Electronics, Hua'an Security Intelligence, 
and Hua'an Security Services, resulting in the Group's ownership increasing to 100%. Please refer to Note (VII), 2(1). 
 
The increase in other capital reserves in t he current reporting period of RMB798,833,409.72 is due to the equity-settled 
share-based payment; RMB329,124,946.40 was due to changes in other equity of the investees in the long -term equity 
investments accounted for by the equity method. 
 
Note 2: The decrease of RMB2,796,377,189.55 in share capital premium in the current reporting period was due to the 
repurchase and cancellation of 97,402,605 restricted shares by the Company. Please refer to Note (V) 39. 
 
The decrease of RMB 16,479,345.35 in the share premium in the current reporting period was due to the portion of equity-
settled share-based payments shared by the non-controlling interests. 
41. Treasury Shares  
Unit: RMB  
Item Opening balance Increase in the current 
reporting period  
Decrease in the current 
reporting period Closing balance 
Restricted shares 
incentive scheme 2,737,987,226.55 - 2,737,987,226.55 - 
Outstanding shares - 310,044,296.12 - 310,044,296.12 
Total 2,737,987,226.55 310,044,296.12 2,737,987,226.55 310,044,296.12 
 
Note: The increase of 310,044,296.12 shares in treasury shares during the current reporting period, is due to the repurchase 
of 10,000,219 shares through centralized bidding using its own funds, and the repurchased shares are held in the special 
securities account for share repurchase. 
 
The decrease in treasury shares includes the repurchase and cancellation of 97,402,605 restricted shares, reducing treasury 
shares by RMB 2,737,987,226.55. For more details, see Note (V), 39. 
 
.   
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
323 
42. Other Comprehensive Income 
  Unit: RMB  
Item Opening 
balance 
Amounts occurred in the current reporting period 
Closing balance 
The before-
income-tax 
amount 
incurred 
during the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Less: 
transfer to 
current 
period P/L 
from 
previous 
other 
comprehens
ive income 
Less: 
income 
tax 
expense 
Attributable to 
the parent 
company (after 
tax) 
Attributable to 
minority 
shareholders 
(after tax) 
Other incomes 
that may be 
reclassified 
subsequently to 
profit or loss 
44,667,516.16 (285,156,327.33) - - (156,178,002.37) (128,978,324.96) (111,510,486.21) 
Including: Effect 
on conversion of 
financial 
statements 
denominated in 
foreign currencies 
44,667,516.16 (285,156,327.33) - - (156,178,002.37) (128,978,324.96) (111,510,486.21) 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
44,667,516.16 (285,156,327.33) - - (156,178,002.37) (128,978,324.96) (111,510,486.21) 
 
43. Surplus Reserves  
Unit: RMB  
Item  Opening balance 
Increase in the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Decrease in the 
current 
reporting 
period 
Closing balance 
Statutory surplus reserves 4,715,460,312.00 - - 4,715,460,312.00 
Total 4,715,460,312.00 - - 4,715,460,312.00 
 
Note: According to the Company Law of the People's Republic of China and the Articles of Association of the Company, The Company shall 
withdraw the statutory surplus reserve fund at 10% of the annual net profit of the parent company, and when the accumulated amount of the 
statutory surplus reserve fund reaches more than 50% of the registered capital, it may not be withdrawn. The statutory surplus reserve can be 
used to make up for losses or increase the share capital after approval. The accumulated amount of the Company's statutory surplus reserve is 
RMB 4,715,460,312.00, which exceeds 50% of the Company's share capital. 
44. Retained Earnings  
Unit: RMB  
Item  2024 2023 (Restated) 
Retained Earnings at the close of the prior reporting period 
before adjustments 57,136,620,244.01 49,460,240,986.49 
Adjustments on retained earnings at the open of the 
current reporting period  - 182,975.56 
Retained Earnings at the close of current he reporting 
period after adjustments 57,136,620,244.01 49,460,423,962.05 
Add: Net profit attributable to the parent company for the 
reporting period 11,977,327,023.54  14,107,726,276.26 
Less: withdraws on the statutory surplus reserve  - - 
Dividends payable on common shares (Note 1) 8,154,034,325.40 6,431,425,077.70 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
324 
Item  2024 2023 (Restated) 
Others (Note 2)  104,916.60 
Retained earnings at the end of the current reporting 
period 60,959,912,942.15 57,136,620,244.01 
 
Note 1: According to the resolution of 2023 Annual General Meeting dated on May 10, 2024, based upon the total capital share of the 
Company on the equity distribution date, for each 10 ordinary shares, the Company distributed cash dividends of RMB 9 (tax inclusive), the 
rest of retained earnings were all carried forward for future distributions. 
 
Note 2: The subsidiary company, EZVIZ Network, of the Group, signed a management entrustment agreement with the parent company, 
CETHIK Group Ltd.  (hereinafter referred to as "CETHIK") for Furui Technology th is year. This transaction constitutes a business 
combination under common control. For details, see Note (VI), 1. According to the management entrustment agreement, the net p rofit 
generated by Furui Technology in the previous year actually belongs to CETHIK. 
 
45. Revenue / cost of sales and services 
(1) Revenue and cost of sales and services 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Revenue Cost Revenue Cost 
Major business 91,848,150,416.12 51,450,813,344.31 88,735,530,906.73 49,331,525,439.10 
Other business 647,374,702.18 503,044,567.90  605,646,703.67 401,243,108.47 
Total  92,495,525,118.30 51,953,857,912.21 89,341,177,610.40 49,732,768,547.57 
 
(2) Revenue (by product or business type) 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Products and services for main business (Note) 67,963,258,099.83 68,781,078,704.92 
Constructions of main business 2,048,116,006.90 2,007,188,913.81 
Innovative businesses 22,484,151,011.57 18,552,909,991.67  
Including: Robotic business 5,928,825,303.14 4,940,495,688.57 
Smart home business 5,190,222,359.58 4,686,023,001.37 
Thermal imaging business 4,191,132,575.45 3,284,778,727.13 
Auto electronics business 3,919,493,044.46 2,706,680,020.16 
Storage business 2,314,389,221.29 1,931,387,706.41 
Other innovative businesses 940,088,507.65 1,003,544,848.03 
Total  92,495,525,118.30 89,341,177,610.40 
Note: Main business refers to the business parts other than the innovative businesses. 
 
(3) Major business (by business type) 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2024 
Revenue Cost 
Product sales 87,408,184,677.06 48,876,816,169.66 
Construction contract 2,048,116,006.90 1,624,213,884.66 
Provide services  2,391,849,732.16 949,783,289.99 
Total  91,848,150,416.12 51,450,813,344.31 
 
 
 
(4) Major business (by the time of revenue recognition) 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
325 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2024 
Revenue Cost 
Recognized at a point in time 87,408,184,677.06 48,876,816,169.66 
Recognized over time 4,439,965,739.06 2,573,997,174.65 
Total 91,848,150,416.12 51,450,813,344.31 
 
46. Business Taxes and Surcharges 
Unit: RMB 
 
47. Selling Expenses 
Unit: RMB 
 
Item 2024 2023 
City construction and maintenance tax 289,723,169.24  314,257,068.06  
Education surcharges 127,072,888.33  136,548,924.16  
Real estate tax  93,318,578.98  68,387,163.53  
Local education surcharges  84,715,259.14  91,032,619.45  
Stamp duty  78,856,150.38 83,472,191.23 
Tax on use of land  14,983,870.80  7,973,676.69  
Vehicle and vessel tax 133,510.29  142,212.47  
Others  3,482,500.20 2,827,523.10 
Total  692,285,927.36 704,641,378.69 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Payroll 7,332,316,817.36  6,810,618,419.65  
Marketing Expenses 1,925,239,948.86 1,451,289,954.94 
Travelling expenses 629,945,028.62 535,865,115.05  
Shipping, transportation, and vehicle expense  442,927,059.62  399,732,317.41  
Office expenses 360,077,188.10 292,733,211.13  
Depreciation and amortization expenses  323,848,822.04  278,842,930.03  
Business hospitality expenses  306,984,860.46  299,654,749.49  
Professional Intermediary expenses 293,901,523.38 204,146,036.74  
Rental expenses  55,316,900.89  97,873,220.30  
Others 380,659,953.29 376,032,121.27  
Total 12,051,218,102.62 10,746,788,076.01 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
326 
48. Administrative Expenses 
 
 
49. R&D Expenses 
 Unit: RMB 
 
50. Financial Expenses 
Unit: RMB  
 
 
 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Payroll 1,896,569,807.90 1,695,038,546.31 
Depreciation and amortization expenses  435,391,420.72 331,435,183.33 
Office expenses  308,564,147.69 300,578,446.48 
Professional Intermediary expenses 97,689,845.38 109,043,766.60 
Shipping, transportation, car expense  63,738,885.26 62,205,098.49 
Travelling expenses 57,416,967.08 48,698,135.31 
Business hospitality expenses 14,512,396.60 12,101,649.04 
Others  222,056,173.29 211,680,377.89 
Total 3,095,939,643.92 2,770,781,203.45 
Item 2024 2023 
Payroll 9,199,042,429.59  9,106,625,103.96  
Consumables and service fees 1,080,897,304.01 827,535,055.34 
Depreciation and amortization expenses 420,528,831.63  396,521,961.36  
Intermediate testing fees 378,195,302.14  279,447,277.60  
Office expenses 316,503,443.21 294,212,819.79 
Travelling expenses 197,483,910.19  186,837,407.75  
New product design fees  172,623,502.86  197,702,784.59  
Others  98,738,668.64  104,065,994.08 
Total  11,864,013,392.27 11,392,948,404.47 
Item 2024 2023 (restated) 
Interest expenses 355,616,402.34 443,682,056.79 
Interest expense on lease liabilities 41,603,299.47 20,277,211.42 
Less: Interest income 878,035,430.32 1,067,169,946.60 
Foreign exchange losses (gains) 291,278,463.86 (201,813,404.51) 
Less: Capitalized specific loan interests and foreign 
exchange differences on specific loan  5,815,514.68 6,354,148.62 
Others 80,535,286.17 61,577,947.73 
Total (114,817,493.16) (749,800,283.79) 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
327 
51. Other Income 
 Unit: RMB  
 
52. Investment Income  
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 
Long-term equity investment gains (losses) based on the equity 
method 30,668,990.87 (29,966,477.85) 
Investment income from other non-current financial assets during 
the holding period 61,241,171.99 65,923,840.33 
Investment income (losses) from disposal of derivative financial 
assets (5,998,577.35) (90,195,333.19) 
Income (losses) from multi-transactions business combination of 
enterprises not under the same control - 116,433,610.45 
Income from Debt Restructuring 101,109,433.26 - 
Others  - 1,106,664.51 
Total 187,021,018.77 63,302,304.25 
Note: During the reporting year, the Group and its debtor restructured accounts receivable with book value of RMB 49,360,966.74 by adjusting 
the principal amount and changing the repayment terms. This reduced the original value of accounts receivable by RMB 180,617,041.15 and 
decreased the allowance for bad debts by RMB 131,256,074.41. The debt forgiveness amounted to RMB 30,146,641.15. The total ga in 
recognized due to the debt restructuring this year was RMB 101,109,433.26. 
 
53. Gains (Losses) from Changes in Fair Values 
Unit: RMB 
 
54. Credit Impairment Gains (Losses) 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 (restated) 
V A T refund 1,874,624,340.02  1,905,727,477.36  
Special subsidies 688,670,655.22 594,438,518.34 
Others 90,387,815.63 59,357,247.29 
Total  2,653,682,810.87 2,559,523,242.99 
Sources of gains (losses) from changes in fair values  2024 2023 
Gains (losses) from changes in fair value of derivative financial assets   26,738,543.93 (12,770,058.36) 
Gains (losses) from changes in fair value of other non -current financial 
assets (15,184,854.90) 5,229,385.72 
Gains (losses) on the changes in fair value of derivative financial liabilities  36,205,413.40 30,219,930.53 
Total 47,759,102.43 22,679,257.89 
Item 2024 2023 
Credit impairment gains (losses) on notes receivable (562,417.45)  (2,492,390.65)  
Credit impairment gains (losses) on accounts receivable (928,758,599.26) (743,585,106.95) 
Credit impairment reverses gains (losses) on other receivables (1,816,609.21) (1,453,975.50)  
Credit impairment gains (losses) on long-term receivables  (137,651,879.82)   (132,391,300.15)  
Total (1,068,789,505.74) (879,922,773.25)  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
328 
55. Impairment Gains (Losses) of Assets 
 Unit: RMB  
Item  2024 2023 
Gains (losses) on inventory depreciation (444,233,922.43) (467,275,356.52) 
Gains (losses) on impairment of contract assets (including the portion 
recognized in other non-current assets) (1,680,465.16) 3,893,081.40 
Total (445,914,387.59) (463,382,275.12) 
 
56. Non-operating Income 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 
The amount booked into current 
period non-recurring profits and 
losses 
Fines and confiscations 45,474,188.29 71,548,457.58 45,474,188.29 
Government subsidies 829,499.67 630,722.79  829,499.67 
Others  17,433,894.39 15,393,939.67  17,433,894.39 
Total  63,737,582.35 87,573,120.04 63,737,582.35 
 
57. Non-operating Expenses 
Unit: RMB  
 
58. Income Tax Expenses 
(1) Details of income tax expenses 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Income tax for the current reporting period 1,797,231,764.17  1,839,138,688.39  
Deferred income tax expenses (262,111,502.20)  (535,918,231.15) 
Differences in filing and payment of income tax in previous 
reporting years (332,648,682.48) (359,906,588.34) 
Total  1,202,471,579.49 943,313,868.90  
 
(2) Reconciliation of income tax expenses to the accounting profit 
 
Item 2024 2023 The amount booked into current period 
non-recurring profits and losses 
Local water conservancy construction fund  2,862,778.24 2,682,863.47 - 
Donation expenses  2,796,454.31 2,078,792.44 2,796,454.31 
Losses on disposal of non-current assets 322,794.37 4,832,681.02 322,794.37 
Others  26,508,611.94 18,338,679.98 26,508,611.94 
Total  32,490,638.86 27,933,016.91 29,627,860.62 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
329 
Unit: RMB 
59. Notes to Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Items  
(1) Cash flow from operating activities 
Other cash receipts relating to operating activities 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Interest income 750,781,420.97 938,159,935.34 
Government subsidies 597,752,636.08 598,933,415.73 
Withdrawal of restricted currency funds 234,681,725.23 115,110,998.04 
Others  177,629,415.85 154,289,838.61  
Total 1,760,845,198.13 1,806,494,187.72 
 
Other cash payments relating to operating activities 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Office expenses and business expenses 2,022,766,137.12 1,714,220,908.73 
R&D expense 1,631,755,731.65 1,310,339,918.88 
Advertising and selling service 1,295,809,508.16 1,100,850,473.21 
Travelling expense 884,845,905.89 771,400,658.11 
Outsourcing service fees, fees for hiring intermediaries, etc. 514,516,193.91 457,158,581.72 
Shipping and transportation expense 506,665,944.88 461,937,415.90 
Deposits to restricted monetary funds 242,936,375.21 123,808,399.08 
Rental expense 59,220,236.26 118,308,723.14 
Others 370,710,380.02 229,907,809.53 
Total  7,529,226,413.10 6,287,932,888.30 
 
(2) Cash flow from investing activities 
Cash receipts relating to important investing activities 
 
 
 Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
Total profit 14,343,493,640.00 16,099,215,632.11 
Income tax expenses calculated at applicable tax rates of 
15% 2,151,524,046.00 2,414,882,344.80 
Impact of non-deductible costs, expenses and losses 191,981,349.17 34,413,929.90 
Tax effect of non-taxable income (1,504,602.82) (98,174,019.29) 
Impact of deductible temporary differences or deductible 
losses for which no deferred income tax assets is 
recognized for the current period 
294,369,183.13 172,197,460.01 
Impact of using deductible temporary differences or 
deductible losses for which no deferred income tax assets 
was recognized for the prior periods 
(33,438,275.11) (117,780,210.38) 
Differences of income tax annual filing (332,648,682.48) (359,906,588.34) 
Impact by differ ent tax rates applicable to different 
subsidiaries 273,802,509.46 184,279,068.80 
Impact of additional deduction of R&D expenses (1,327,003,879.64) (1,272,836,446.36) 
Others (14,610,068.22) (13,761,670.24)  
Income tax expenses 1,202,471,579.49 943,313,868.90 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
330 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 
Forward foreign exchange contract 3,002,416,092.15 4,687,808,134.25 
Total  3,002,416,092.15 4,687,808,134.25 
 
Cash payments relating to important investing activities 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 
Forward foreign exchange contract payments 3,017,921,031.55 4,778,003,467.44 
Cash paid for the purchase and construction of fixed assets, 
intangible assets and other long-term assets 4,665,742,203.72 4,047,816,024.05 
Total  7,683,663,235.27 8,825,819,491.49 
 
Other cash receipts relating to investing activities 
 Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 
Receipts of financing lease payments 84,419,763.14 121,237,455.42 
Total  84,419,763.14 121,237,455.42 
 
(3) Cash flow from financing activities 
Other cash receipts relating to financing activities  
Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 
Cash receipts from project fund (refer to XI 5(4) for details) 2,007,056.47 5,000,000.00 
 
Other cash payments relating to financing activities 
Unit: RMB  
Item 2024 2023 
Repurchase of restricted shares  2,723,810,978.11 655,807,536.16 
Repayment of lease liabilities 332,488,237.61 285,474,093.26 
Repurchase of outstanding shares 310,044,296.12 -    
Consideration paid for the acquisition of minority shareholder 
equity 10,380,041.54 56,000,000.00 
Total 3,376,723,553.38 997,281,629.42 
 
Changes in liabilities from financing activitiess 
Unit: RMB  
Item December 31, 2023 
2024 
December 31, 2024 
Cash changes Non-cash changes 
Lease liabilities (including lease 
liabilities due within one year) 528,728,313.56 (332,488,237.61) 359,595,896.79 555,835,972.74 
Long-term borrowings (including 
loan due within one year) and short-
term borrowings 
16,686,600,823.23 (10,216,217,771.70) 267,287,079.54 6,737,670,131.07 
Dividend payables 253,957,413.29 (8,637,054,517.02) 8,383,283,896.84 186,793.11 
Total 17,469,286,550.08 (19,185,760,526.33) 9,010,166,873.17 7,293,692,896.92 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
331 
60. Supplementary Information about Cash Flow Statement 
(1) Supplementary information about cash flow statement 
Unit: RMB  
Supplementary information 2024 2023 (Restated) 
1. Reconciliation of net profit to cash flows from 
operating activities:   
Net profit 13,141,022,060.51 15,155,901,763.21 
Add: Impairment of assets 445,914,387.59 463,382,275.12 
Provision for credit losses 1,068,789,505.74 879,922,773.25 
 Fixed assets depreciation 1,491,731,725.01 1,302,911,665.68 
 Amortization of right-of-use assets 295,082,848.33 316,765,782.26 
 Amortization of intangible assets 99,999,893.62 98,924,636.89 
       Long-term deferred expenses amortization 97,115,766.37 84,144,427.77 
Losses on disposal of fixed assets, intangible 
assets and other long-term assets 14,539,975.31 5,674,511.78 
Fixed asset scrapping losses 322,794.37 4,832,681.02 
Losses (gains) from changes in fair value (47,759,102.43) (22,679,257.89) 
 Financial expenses  256,441,388.18 325,040,311.15 
 Investment losses (gains) (85,911,585.51) (63,302,304.25) 
 Share-based payment based on equity 
settlement 865,428,572.59 207,616,877.93 
       Decrease (increase) of restricted funds (8,254,649.98) (8,697,401.04) 
       Decrease (increase) in deferred tax assets (236,371,472.37) (507,175,433.89) 
Increase (decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (17,155,614.66) (54,853,902.30) 
 Decrease (increase) in inventories (299,985,733.29) (365,476,343.55) 
Decrease (increase) of other operating non-
current assets (185,775,794.08) 340,718,688.36 
 Decrease (increase) in operating receivables (4,018,940,188.01) (6,132,832,357.74)  
 Increase (decrease) in operating payables 479,604,764.25 4,587,526,152.69 
 Increase (decrease) in deferred income (91,747,518.81) 3,864,174.60 
   Net cash flows from operating activities 13,264,092,022.73 16,622,209,721.05 
2. Net changes in cash and cash equivalents:   
Closing balance of cash    36,053,042,380.29 49,427,967,355.78 
Less: Opening balance of cash 49,427,967,355.78 39,825,124,107.52 
Add: Closing balance of cash equivalents - - 
    Less: Opening balance of cash equivalents - - 
  Net Increase (decrease) in cash and cash 
equivalents (13,374,924,975.49) 9,602,843,248.26 
 
(2) Net cash paid for obtaining subsidiaries during the current year 
Unit: RMB 
 Amounts 
Cash or cash equivalents paid for the business combination in previous years 8,440,700.00 
Including: Zhejiang Zhiyuan Fire Safety Engineering Co., Ltd. 8,440,700.00 
Net cash paid for obtaining the subsidiary 8,440,700.00 
 
(3) Constituents of cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
332 
 Unit: RMB 
Item  Closing balance Opening balance (restated) 
Cash   36,053,042,380.29     49,427,967,355.78   
  Including: Cash on hand   682,023.34     1,785,754.92   
           Bank deposit for payment at any time   35,933,926,817.28     49,400,692,427.34   
           Other monetary capital for payment at any time   118,433,539.67     25,489,173.52   
Cash equivalents - - 
Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents   36,053,042,380.29     49,427,967,355.78   
61. Monetary Items of Foreign Currencies 
             Unit: RMB  
Item Balance in foreign currency at 
the end of the reporting period 
Exchange rate for 
conversion 
Balance of RMB converted at 
the end of the reporting period 
Cash and bank balances    
  Including: USD 521,635,040.48 7.1884 3,749,721,325.00 
     EUR 54,445,885.15 7.5257 409,743,397.87 
    
Accounts receivable    
  Including: USD 329,067,851.99 7.1884 2,365,471,347.24 
     EUR 162,993,618.06 7.5257 1,226,641,071.43 
    
Accounts payable    
Including: USD 68,397,350.51 7.1884 491,667,514.41 
         EUR 878,420.96 7.5257 6,610,732.62 
62. Lease 
(1) As lessee 
The company leases a number of assets, including houses and buildings, general equipment, special purpose equipment and 
transport vehicles, ranging from 1 month to 13 years. Such assets cannot be used for loan, mortgage, guarantee and other 
purposes. 
 
The total amount of short-term lease expenses and lease expenses of low -value assets included in profit or loss for the period 
was RMB80,310,605.02 (2023: RMB133,767,688.72). 
 
Total lease-related cash outflows for the year is RMB 412,798,842.63 (2023: RMB 419,241,781.98) 
(2) As a lessor 
Operating lease as a lessor 
,Unit: RMB 
Item Lease income Among which: income related to variable lease payments not 
included in lease collections 
Special-purpose equipment lease 101,545,490.69  -  
Total 101,545,490.69  -  
 
The Company's operating leases as a lessor relate to special-purpose equipment. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
333 
Financial lease as a lessor 
,Unit: RMB 
Item Profit or loss on sales 
 
Financing proceeds 
Income related to variable lease 
payments that are not included in 
net lease investments 
Special-purpose equipment lease 23,159,788.34 5,480,145.59  - 
Total 23,159,788.34 5,480,145.59 - 
 
As a lessor, the Group entered into financial lease contracts with customers in relation to special-purpose equipment. 
 
VI. Changes in Consolidation Scope 
1. Business Combination of Enterprises under the Same Control 
 
(1) Business combination of enterprises under the same control 
 
Furui Technology 
 
On April 10, 2024, the Group's subsidiary, EZVIZ Network, signed a management entrustment agreement with the parent 
company, CETCHIK, and thus EZVIZ Network has achieved control over Furui Technology. Since CETCHIK is the 
controlling shareholder of both the Group and Furui Technology, and EZVIZ Network is a subsidiary of the Group, this 
management entrustment of Furui Technology constitutes a business combination under common control. 
 
Unit: RMB  
Name of 
the 
acquiree 
Equity 
acquisiti
on ratio 
(note) 
Reason for the 
transaction 
constituting a business 
combination under 
common control. 
Date of 
acquisition 
 
Basis for 
determining 
the 
acquisition 
date 
Income of 
acquiree from 
acquisition data 
to the end of the 
reporting period  
 
Net profit (loss) 
of acquiree from 
acquisition data 
to the end of the 
reporting period 
 
 
Income of 
acquire during 
comparison 
period  
 
Net profit of 
acquire during 
comparison 
period  
Hangzhou 
Furui 
Technolog
y Co, Ltd. 
48% 
Before and after the 
business combination, 
the controlling 
shareholder of both 
the Group and Furui 
Technology is 
CETCHIK, and this 
control is not 
temporary. 
April 10, 2024 
Effective 
date of the 
management 
entrustment 
agreement. 
- (295,677.15) 1,320,754.72  218,576.25  
Note: The Group collectively holds 48% of the equity in EZVIZ, which is the consolidated party. 
 
(2) Cost of business combination and goodwill 
 
Unit: RMB 
Cost of business combination Furui Technology 
- Long-term payables  9,749,569.60 
 
(3) The book value of assets and liabilities of the acquiree on the date of purchase 
Unit: RMB 
 
Furui Technology 
Fair value on the date of acquisition Fair value on the date of acquisition 
Assets:   
Cash and bank balances 9,642,829.41  8,689,008.08  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
334 
 
Furui Technology 
Fair value on the date of acquisition Fair value on the date of acquisition 
Accounts receivables - 1,400,000.00  
Other receivables 6,387.00  6,387.00  
Inventories    9,911.50    9,911.50  
Fixed assets   8,845.06  10,024.42  
Total assets 9,667,972.97  10,115,331.00  
Liabilities:   
Payroll payable 65,107.62 216,788.50 
Tax payable 148,972.90  148,972.90  
Total liabilities 214,080.52 365,761.40 
Net assets: 9,453,892.45 9,749,569.60 
 
2. Changes of Consolidation Scope due to Other Causes 
 
The subsidiaries newly established and incorporated in the consolidation scope during the current reporting period 
as follows: 
Company Name Time of establishment Registered capital 
Hangzhou Hikimaging Electronics Ltd. March 2024 RMB 10 million 
Hangzhou Rayin Detection Technology Co., 
Ltd. April 2024 RMB 50 million 
EZVIZ Vietnam LLC Co., Ltd August 2024 USD 0.8 million 
Hangzhou Micro Sensing Electronics Ltd. September 2024 RMB 100 million 
Guoneng Haikang Yaoshi Technology 
(Hangzhou) Co., Ltd.  October 2024 RMB 100 million 
EZVIZ Trading FZE (Note) November 2024 USD 0.5 million 
Hikrobot Japan KK (Note) December 2024 JPY 70 million 
 
Note: As of the end of this year, EZVIZ Trading FZE and Hikrobot Japan KK have not yet completed their paid-in capital. 
 
VII. Interest in Other Entities 
1. Equity in Subsidiaries 
 
(1) Composition of the corporate group 
 
Name Location of 
operation 
Place of 
registration Nature of business Acquisition 
method 
Hangzhou Hikvision System Technology 
Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 
System integration, 
Technology 
development 
Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., 
Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang Manufacture Establishment 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network Co., Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, Technology Establishment 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
335 
Name Location of 
operation 
Place of 
registration Nature of business Acquisition 
method 
Zhejiang development 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Software Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 
Technology 
development Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Technology Co., Ltd.  Hangzhou Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 
Technology 
development Establishment 
Hangzhou Hikrobot Intelligence Ltd. Hangzhou Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 
Technology 
development  Establishment 
 
2. Changes in the share of owners' equity in subsidiaries and still controls the transactions of subsidiaries. 
(1) Description of the change in the share of owners' equity in subsidiaries 
 
Acquisition of minority stakes in Hua'an Security Intelligence, Hua'an Security Electronics, and Hua'an Security Services. 
 
On April 30, 2024, the Group and the original minority shareholders of its subsidiary companies, Hua 'an Security Intelligent and Hua 'an 
Security Electronics, jointly signed the "Equity Transfer Agreement for Henan Hua'an Security Intelligent Development Co., Ltd. and Henan 
Hikvision Hua'an Security Electronics Co., Ltd." The agreement stipulates the acquisition of 6.14% of the minority equity in Hua'an Security 
Intelligent and Hua'an Security Electronics from the original minority shareholders for RMB 5.83 million and RMB 4.42 million, respectively. 
Upon completion of the acquisition, the Group will hold 100% of the equity in both Hua'an Security Intelligent and Hua'an Security Electronics. 
The equity transfer was completed on May 31, 2024. By the end of the year, the Group had fully paid the acquisition amount. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Hua'an Security Intelligence, a subsidiary of the Group, entered into a Share Transfer Agreement with the original minority 
shareholders of Hua'an Security Services, a subsidiary of Hua'an Security Intelligence. The agreement stipulates the acquisition of 10% equity 
in Hua'an Security Services held by the original minority shareholders for RMB 127,400. After the acquisition, Hua'an Security Intelligence 
will hold 100% equity in Hua'an Security Services. Since the Group holds 100% equity in Hua'an Security Intelligence, the Group holds 100% 
equity in Hua'an Security Services. On May 31, 2024, both parties completed the equity transfer. As of the end of the year, the Group has 
completed the payment for the equity acquisition. 
 
Unit: RMB  
Cost of purchase 
 Hua'an Security 
Intelligence and its 
subsidiaries 
Hu'an Security 
Electronics and its 
subsidiaries  
Hua'an Security 
Service and its 
subsidiaries 
Cash 5,831,820.00 4,420,800.00 127,421.54 
Total cost of purchase 5,831,820.00 4,420,800.00 127,421.54 
Less: net assets of subsidiaries according to the proportion of 
equity acquired 5,549,503.73 4,845,770.23 106,212.26 
Adjustment of the difference to capital reserve 282,316.27 (424,970.23) 21,209.28 
 
3. Equity in Joint Ventures or Associates 
 
(1) Aggregated financial information of insignificant joint-ventures and associates 
Unit: RMB 
 Closing balance / Amount for 
2024 
Opening balance / Amount for 
2023 
Associates:   
The aggregate carrying amount of investments in associates 598,565,831.26 287,370,796.06 
The aggregate amount of the following items calculated based on the 
Company's equity share percentage of the associates    
- Net income 27,475,447.67 15,006,433.70 
- Other comprehensive income - - 
--Total comprehensive income 27,475,447.67 15,006,433.70 
Joint Ventures:   
Total investment book value 928,657,559.53 863,734,091.79 
The sum of the following items calculated according to the 
shareholding ratio   
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
336 
 Closing balance / Amount for 
2024 
Opening balance / Amount for 
2023 
- Net income (loss) 3,193,543.20 (44,972,911.55) 
- Other comprehensive income  - - 
- Total comprehensive income (loss) 3,193,543.20 (44,972,911.55) 
 
(2) There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the joint ventures or associates to transfer funds to the Group.  
 
(3) The Group has no nrecognized commitments relating to investments in joint ventures. 
 
(4) The Group has no contingent liabilities related to investments in joint ventures or associates. 
 
VIII. Government subsidy 
1. Liabilities relating to government subsidy 
Unit: RMB  
Liabilities  Amount at the open 
of 2024 Increase in 2024 Other income 2024 Amount at the close 
of 2024 
Asset-related 
/revenue-related 
Special subsidy  741,121,772.61 195,769,448.77 122,672,090.78 814,219,130.60 Asset-related 
Special subsidy  225,137,819.73 95,972,837.34 260,817,714.14 60,292,942.93 Revenue-related 
Total  966,259,592.34  291,742,286.11 383,489,804.92 874,512,073.53  
 
 
2. Government subsidy recognized as gain or loss in the reporting period 
Unit: RMB  
Subsidy item 2024 2023 
VAT collected and refunded 1,874,624,340.02 1,905,727,477.36 
Special subsidy  689,500,154.89 595,069,241.13 
Total 2,564,124,494.91 2,500,796,718.49 
 
IX. Risks Associated with Financial Instrument 
The Company's principal financial instruments include cash and bank balances, other non -current financial assets, notes 
receivable, accounts receivable, receivables for financing, other receivables, long-term receivables, part of the other non-
current assets, borrowings, notes payable, accounts payable, other payables, part of the other current liabilities, long-term 
payables, part of other non-current liabilities, derivative financial instruments, etc. Details of these financial instruments 
are set out in Note (V). Below are the risks associated with such financial instruments and the risk management policies 
adopted by the Group to mitigate such risks. The management of the Group manages and monitors such risk exposures to 
ensure such risks are contained within a prescribed scope. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
337 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance of 2024 Closing balance of 2023 (restated) 
Financial assets:   
Measured at fair value through current profit and loss   
Derivative financial assets 26,775,923.93 37,380.00 
Other non-current financial assets 472,000,082.76 472,184,937.66 
   
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income    
Receivables for financing  2,291,648,244.05 1,594,219,832.62 
   
Measured at amortized cost   
Cash and bank balances 36,271,488,337.03 49,638,158,662.54 
Notes receivable 2,722,596,142.46 2,606,071,375.74 
Accounts receivable 37,910,128,735.42 35,816,573,511.44 
Other receivables 531,344,606.50 571,912,035.93 
Other non-current assets 51,370.95 2,017,718.89  
Long-term receivables (including those due within one year)  1,274,780,835.91 1,618,419,624.99 
   
Financial liabilities   
Measured at fair value through current profit and loss   
Derivative financial liabilities  1,874,341.64 38,079,755.04 
   
Measured at amortized cost   
Short-term borrowings 1,031,895,812.62 2,118,952,026.06 
Notes payable 1,197,128,746.56 1,163,687,279.58 
Accounts payable 20,185,303,107.69 19,163,485,888.09 
Other payables  3,528,359,044.48 3,911,612,841.06 
Other current liabilities - 1,095,194,890.62 
Long-term borrowings (including those due within one year) 5,705,774,318.45 14,567,648,797.17 
Long-term payables (including those due within one year) 9,818,368.20 17,938,100.82 
Other non-current liabilities - 1,642,792,335.93 
 
The Group adopts sensitivity analysis techniques to analyze the possible effects of rational and probable changes in risk 
variables to profit or loss for the period or to the interests of shareholders. Since risk variables seldom change on a stand-
alone basis, while the correlation between variables may have significant influence to the ultimate amount of change 
effected by the change in a single risk variable, the analysis below is based on the assumption that the changes in each 
variable occurred separately. 
 
1. Objectives, Policies and Procedures of Risk Management, and changes in the reporting period 
 
The Group engages in risk management with the aim of achieving an appropriate balance between risk and return, where 
the negative effects of risks against the Group 's operating results are minimized, in order to maximize the benefits of 
shareholders and other stakeholders. Based on such objective in risk management, the underlying strategy of the Group's 
risk management is to ascertain and analyze all types of risks exposures of the Group, establish appropriate risk tolerance 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
338 
thresholds, carry out risk management procedures and perform risk monitoring on all kinds of risks in a timely and reliable 
manner, thus containing risk exposures within a prescribed scope. 
 
1.1 Market risks 
 
1.1.1 Foreign exchange risks 
 
Foreign exchange risks refer to the risk that losses will occur because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company 
is primarily exposed to risks relating to the currencies such as USD, EUR and etc. The Group's subsidiaries in the mainland 
of China whose procurement, sales and financing are denominated in RMB, USD and EUR. Other principal activities are 
settled in RMB. The Group's subsidiaries in Hong Kong and outside China are principally engaged in procurement, sales, 
financing and other major business activities in local currencies such as USD, EUR and etc. 
 
As of December 31, 2024,  except for monetary items of foreign currencies set out in Note (V) 61, the Group mainly 
adopted the functional currency of each of its subsidiary to present the balance of its assets and liabilities. The foreign 
exchange risks arising from assets and liabilities denominated in USD and EUR (which has been converted into RMB) as 
follows may generate significant impact on the operating results of the Group. 
Unit: RMB  
Currency 
            Assets             Liabilities 
Closing balance Opening balance Closing balance Opening balance 
USD 6,115,192,672.24 3,459,224,512.51 491,667,514.41 325,809,696.61 
EUR 1,636,384,469.30 3,068,403,192.93 6,610,732.62 1,908,485,738.15 
 
The Group has been paying close attention to the effect of fluctuation in exchange rate on the foreign exchange risks of 
the Group, and has purchased various financial derivative instruments, such as forward foreign exchange contracts to 
mitigate the foreign exchange risk exposure. 
 
Sensitivity analysis on exchange rate risk 
 
The sensitivity analysis of the Group's foreign exchange risk includes only monetary items denominated in foreign 
currencies and does not consider the impact of the purchased derivative financial instruments. 
With other variables unchanged, the exchange rate m ight float within a reasonable range, and has the following before -
tax effect on profit or loss and shareholders' equity for the current period: 
 
Unit: RMB  
Change in foreign exchange rates  
2024 2023 
Effect on profit Effect on 
shareholders' equity Effect on profit Effect on 
shareholders' equity 
5% appreciation of USD against functional currency 281,176,257.89 281,176,257.89 156,670,740.80 156,670,740.80 
5% depreciation of USD against functional currency (281,176,257.89
) 
(281,176,257.89) (156,670,740.80) (156,670,740.80) 
5% appreciation of EUR against functional currency  81,488,686.83 81,488,686.83 57,995,872.74 57,995,872.74 
5% depreciation of EUR against functional currency (81,488,686.83) (81,488,686.83) (57,995,872.74) (57,995,872.74) 
 
1.1.2. Interest rate risk 
 
The risk of changes in cash flow of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates exposed to the Group are primarily 
related to bank borrowings bearing floating interest rate (please refer to Note (V) 24) and Note (V) 34) and bank deposits 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
339 
bearing floating interest rate. The Group's risks of changes in the fair value of financial instruments due to changes in 
interest rates are related to fixed-rate bank borrowings (please refer to Note (V) 24 and Note (V) 34) and fixed-rate bank 
deposits. 
 
The Group determines the relative proportion of fixed interest rate contracts and floating interest rate contracts based on 
the prevailing market environment. On December 31, 2024, the Group 's total long-term and short-term interest-bearing 
debts bearing fixed interest rates amounted to RMB 5,538,078,464.46 (December 31, 2023: RMB  11,105,877,902.09). 
The total amount of long -term and short -term interest -bearing debts bearing floating interest rates is RMB 
1,165,181,524.22 (December 31, 2024: RMB5,546,156,677.17). 
 
At present, the Group does not have any interest rate swap arrangements and will continue to pay close attention to the 
impact of changes in borrowing interest rates on the interest rate risk of the Group, and wi ll make timely adjustments 
according to the latest market conditions. 
 
The Group expects that the exposure to cash flow risk arising from floating-rate bank deposits and the exposure to changes 
in fair value arising from fixed-rate bank deposits are not significant.  
 
1.1.3. Other price risks 
 
The Group's price risk mainly arises from investments in held -for-trading equity instruments and derivative financial 
instruments. Held -for-trading equity instrument investments are all investments in unlisted held -for-trading equity 
instruments. 
 
The Group is exposed to price risk due to the holding of financial assets measured at fair value. The fair value of certain 
financial instruments is determined by the general pricing model based on discounted future cash flow  method or other 
valuation techniques, while the valuation techniques are based on certain valuation assumptions. Therefore, the valuation 
results are highly sensitive to valuation assumptions. However, at the end of the current reporting period, the amoun t of 
investment in held-for-trading equity instruments and derivative financial instruments is not significant, and the changes 
of the amount due to changes in price of financial instruments as a result of change in valuation assumptions is limited, 
accordingly, no sensitivity analysis is conducted. 
 
1.2 Credit Risk 
 
As of December 31, 2024, the largest credit risk exposure that may result in financial losses of the Group is mainly due to 
the loss of the Group 's financial assets arising from the failure of the counterparty to perform its obligations, including: 
cash and bank balances (Note (V) 1), notes receivable (Note (V) 3), accounts receivable (Note (V) 4), receivables for 
financing (Note (V) 6), other receivables (Note (V) 8), contract assets (Note (V) 5 an d Note (V) 22), non-current assets 
due within one year (Note (V) 10), long -term receivables (Note (V) 12), etc., and derivative financial assets that are not 
included in the scope of impairment assessment and are measured at fair value through current profit or loss (Note (V) 2). 
As of the balance sheet date, the book value of the Group's financial assets represents its maximum credit risk exposure. 
 
In order to reduce credit risk, the Group has arranged a team to determine the credit limit, conduct credit approval, and 
implement other monitoring procedures to ensure that necessary measures are taken to recover over-due debt. In addition, 
the Group reviews the recovery of financial assets on each balance sheet date to ensure that sufficient credit loss provisions 
are made for relevant financial assets. Therefore, the management of the Group believes that the credit risk exposure of 
the Group has been reduced significantly. 
 
The credit risk on cash and bank balances of the Group is low as they are deposited with banks with high credit ratings. 
 
For accounts receivable, contract assets and long-term receivables, the Group has put in place relevant policies to control 
credit risk exposure. The Group assesses credit quality of customers and sets corresponding cred it period based on the 
customer's financial status, the possibility of obtaining guarantees from third parties, credit history and other factors such 
as current market conditions. The Group will regularly monitor the credit history of its customers. For cu stomers with 
poor credit history, the Group takes various measures, such as written payment reminders, shorten or cancel the credit 
period, to ensure that the overall credit risk of the Group is maintained in a controllable range. For accounts receivable 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
340 
and contract assets, the Group uses a simplified method, that is, to measure the loss provision based on the amount 
equivalent to the expected credit loss for the entire duration. For details of the relevant expected credit loss measurement, 
see (Note (V) 4 & Note (V) 5). For long -term receivables, the Group calculates the expected credit losses based on the 
expected credit loss rate in the next 12 months or the entire duration based on the default risk exposure. For details of the 
related expected credit loss measurement, see (Note (V) 12). 
 
For bank acceptance bills and certificates of accounts receivable claims, the Company believes that there is no significant 
credit risk and will not incur any significant losses.  For financial company acceptance bills an d commercial acceptance 
bills, the Company has set relevant policies to control credit risk exposure. The Company evaluates the credit status of the 
acceptor based on its financial position, credit history and other factors, such as current market conditio ns, and sets an 
internal credit rating for the acceptor.  The Company regularly monitors the credit records of the acceptors, and for the 
acceptors with bad credit records, the Company adopts written reminders and other means to ensure that the overall credit 
risk is within a controllable range. For the acceptance bills and commercial acceptance bills receivable from financial 
companies, the Group calculates the expected credit loss based on the default risk exposure based on the expected credit 
loss ratio in the entire duration, and the relevant expected credit loss measurement is detailed in (Note (V) 3). 
 
For other receivables, the Group regularly monitors the debtor 's credit history. For debtors with poor credit history, the 
Group takes various measures s uch as written payment reminders to ensure that the Group 's overall credit risk is 
maintained in a controllable range. For other receivables, the Group calculates the expected credit loss based on the 
expected credit loss ratio in the next 12 months or the entire duration based on the default risk exposure. For details of the 
relevant expected credit loss measurement, see (Note (V) 8). 
 
The Group 's risk exposure is distributed among multiple contractors and multiple customers, so the Group has no 
significant credit concentration risk. 
 
1.3. Liquidity risk 
 
The Group maintains and monitors a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the management to meet the 
operation needs of the Group and to reduce the effect of cash flow movements when managing liquidity risk. The 
management of the Group monitors the usage of bank borrowings, and ensures compliance with borrowing agreements. 
 
According to the term to maturity of non -discounted and remaining contract obligations, the financial liabilities held by 
the Group are analyzed as below: 
 
Unit: RMB 
 
December 31, 2024 
Within one year 1-5 years More than 5 years Total 
Non-derivative financial liabilities     
Short-term borrowings 1,047,801,022.97 - - 1,047,801,022.97 
Notes payable  1,197,128,746.56 - - 1,197,128,746.56 
Accounts payable 20,185,303,107.69 - - 20,185,303,107.69 
Other payables 3,528,359,044.48 - - 3,528,359,044.48 
Long-term borrowings (including 
those due within one year) 732,114,066.41 4,820,841,448.18 518,433,071.37 6,071,388,585.96 
Long-term payables (including 
those due within one year) 40,025.60 31,436.70 - 71,462.30 
Derivative financial liabilities 1,874,341.64 - - 1,874,341.64 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
341 
 
X. Fair Value Disclosure 
1. The Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value at the end of the Reporting Period 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Closing fair value 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total  
I. Continuous fair value measurement - 2,316,549,826.34 472,000,082.76 2,788,549,909.10 
(I) Derivative financial assets  - 26,775,923.93 - 26,775,923.93 
1. Financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit and loss - 26,775,923.93 - 26,775,923.93 
(II) Other non-current financial assets  - - 472,000,082.76 472,000,082.76 
1. Financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss  - 472,000,082.76 472,000,082.76 
(III) Receivables for financing   2,291,648,244.05 - 2,291,648,244.05 
1. Financial assets at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income  
- 2,291,648,244.05 - 2,291,648,244.05 
Total assets measured continuously at 
fair value - 2,318,424,167.98 472,000,082.76 2,790,424,250.74 
(IV) Derivative financial liabilities  - 1,874,341.64 - 1,874,341.64 
1. Financial liabilities measured at 
fair value through profit and loss  1,874,341.64 - 1,874,341.64 
Total liabilities measured 
continuously at fair value  - 1,874,341.64 - 1,874,341.64 
 
2. Information on the Estimation Technique and Important Parameters Adopted as for Continuous Level 2 Fair 
Value Measurement Items 
Unit: RMB 
 Fair value at  
December 31, 2024 Estimation technique Inputs 
Derivative financial assets 26,775,923.93 Discounted cash flow 
approach 
Forward exchange rate 
Discounted rate that reflects the credit risk 
of counterparty 
Derivative financial liabilities 1,874,341.64 Discounted cash flow 
approach 
Forward exchange rate 
Discounted rate that reflects the credit risk 
of counterparty 
Receivables for financing  2,291,648,244.05 Discounted cash flow 
approach 
Discounted rate that reflects the credit risk 
of counterparty 
 
3. The Third Level of Fair Value Measurement Item, the Valuation Techniques and Important Parameters Used 
Unit: RMB 
Items Fair value on 
December 31, 2024 Valuation techniques Inputs 
Other non-current financial assets-- 
Investment in equity instruments of 
companies 
472,000,082.76 Market approach 
/Income approach 
Comparable public companies' PB 
(price/book value) ratio within the same 
industry 
/Future cash flows, Discount rate 
 
4. The Third Level of Fair Value Measurement Item, Adjustment Information between the Opening and Closing 
Book Value 
Unit: RMB 
Other non-current financial assets Amount 
Book value on January 1, 2024 472,184,937.66 
Increase in the current reporting period 15,000,000.00 
Changes in fair value booked into profit and loss during the current reporting period (15,184,854.90) 
Book value on December 31, 2024 472,000,082.76 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
342 
 
The total amount of profit or loss in 2024 includes unrealized losses related to financial assets measured at fair value at 
the end of the year is RMB 15,184,854.90(2023 unrealized losses : RMB5,229,385.72) and such gains or losses are 
included in changes in fair value; the realized gains of financial assets measured at fair value at the end of the current 
reporting period which were included in investment income was RMB61,241,171.99 (2023: RMB65,923,840.33). 
 
5. Items Measured at Continuous Fair Value. There Were No Transfers between Levels for the Current 
Reporting Period. There was No Estimation Technique Change for the Current Reporting Period 
 
6. Fair Values of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities that not Measured at Fair Value 
The Group's management team believes that financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost mainly 
include cash and bank balances, notes receivable, accounts receivable, other receivables, some other non -current assets, 
non-current assets due wit hin one year, long-term receivables, short-term borrowings, notes payable, accounts payable, 
other payables, part of other current liabilities, non -current liabilities due within one year, long -term borrowings, long-
term payables and part of other non-current liabilities, etc., carrying value of which approximates to its fair value. 
 
XI. Related Party Relationships and Transactions 
1. Information on Parent Company of the Company 
 
Name of parent 
company Place of registration Nature of business Registered capital 
Shareholding ratio 
of parent company 
in the Company (%) 
Percentage of 
voting rights of 
parent company to 
the Company (%) 
China Electronics 
Technology HIK 
Group Ltd. 
(CETHIK) 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang Industrial 
investment RMB 845 million 36.93 36.93 
 
The actual controlling party of the Company is CETC.  
 
2. Information on the Subsidiaries of the Company 
 
For details of the main subsidiaries of the Company, see Note ((VII)1). 
 
3. Information on the Joint Ventures and Associated Companies of the Company 
 
Joint ventures and associates that had related party transactions with the Group in the current reporting period, or in the 
prior periods and formed balances are as follows: 
 
Name of the associates or joint ventures Relationship with the Company 
Wuhu Sensortech and Hebei Sensortech (Note1) Associated company 
Maxio Technology (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Note2) Associated company 
Zhiguang Hailian Big Data Technology Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Note2) Associated company 
Jiaxin Haishi JiaAn Zhicheng Technology Ltd. (Note2) Associated company 
Sanmenxia Xiaoyun Vision Technology Ltd. (Note2) Associated company 
Beijing Taifang Technology Ltd. (Note2) Associated company 
Jiangsu Haishi Kaitai Technology Co., Ltd. (Note2) Associated company 
Guangxi Haishi Urban Operation Management Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
(Note3) Joint venture 
Shenzhen Haishi Urban Service Operation Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Note3) Joint venture 
Xuzhou Kangbo Urban Operation Management Service Ltd. (Note3) Joint venture 
Yunnan Yinghai Parking Service Ltd. (Note3) Joint venture 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
343 
Zhejiang City Digital Technology Ltd. (Note3) Joint venture 
Zhejiang Haishi Huayue Digital Technology Ltd. (Note3)  Joint venture 
 
Note 1: During the period from December 2016 to February 2023, Wuhu Sensortech and Hebei Sensortech were associates 
of the Company.  On February 28, 2023, Wuhu Sensortech and Hebei Sensortech  were included in the scope of the 
consolidated financial statements. During the period from January 2023 to February 2023, these two companies were still 
regarded as the Company's related parties. 
 
Note 2: Those companies are collectively referred to as "associated companies" in the following disclosures of related 
party transactions, receivables from related parties, and payable from related parties. 
 
Note 3: Those companies are collectively referred to as "joint ventures" in the following disclosures of related party 
transactions, receivables from related parties, and payable from related parties. 
 
4. Information on Other Related Parties 
 
Name (Note1) Relationship 
Shanghai Fullhan Microelectronics Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
The related close family members of shareholder(s) that 
hold(s) more than 5% shares of the Company act in 
concert with the actual controller of the Company 
Guandong Hutong Technology Co., Ltd. 
The related close family members of shareholder(s) that 
hold(s) more than 5% shares of the Company act as a 
director from board of this company. 
Shenzhen Guotengan V ocational Education Technology Ltd.  Shareholder(s) that hold(s) more than 5% shares of the 
Company serve(s) as the director(s) of this company 
Confirmware Technology (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries The Group's senior management serve(s) as director(s) of 
this company  
Zhejiang Fast Line data fusion Information Technology Co., Ltd. and its 
subsidiaries 
The Group's senior management serve(s) as director(s) of 
this company 
Chengdu Guoshengtianfeng Network Technology Ltd. and its subsidiaries The Group's senior management serve(s) as director(s) of 
this company 
Shenzhen Wanyu Security Service Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries The Group's senior management serve(s) as director(s) of 
this company 
Ningbo Industrial Internet Research Institute Co., Ltd. The Group's independent director(s) serve(s) as 
director(s) of this company 
INESA (Group) Ltd. and its subsidiaries The Group's chairman(chairmen) of Board of the 
Supervisors serve(s) as director(s) of this company 
Shanghai Vico Precision Mold & Plastics Co.,Ltd. (Note2) 
The Group's chairman(chairmen) of Board of the 
Supervisors was(were) independent director(s) of this 
company 
Bank of Tianjin Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries 
The Group's chairman(chairmen) of Board of the 
Supervisors serve(s) as independent director(s) of this 
company 
Shenzhen Zhongtu Instrument Co., Ltd. (Note3) The Group's former chairman(chairmen) of Board of the 
Supervisors was(were) the director(s) of this company 
Subsidiaries of CETC (Note 4)  Under common control of the actual controlling party of 
the Company 
 
Note 1: Those companies (excluding subsidiaries of CETC) are collectively referred to as "other related parties" in the 
following disclosures of related party transactions, receivables from related parties, and payable from related parties. 
 
Note 2: Lu Jianzhong, the chairman of Board of the Supervisors of our Group, once served as an independent director of 
the corresponding company. As he departed from his position as a director of the corresponding company in June 2024, 
and this year marks his first year of departure. Therefore, this company is considered a related party to our Group for this 
year. 
 
Note 3: Hong Tianfeng, the former chairman of Board of the Supervisors of the Company, once served as a director of the 
corresponding company. As he departed from his position as a director of the corresponding company in April 2022, the 
corresponding company was recognized as a related party of the Company between January 2023 and April 2023. 
 
Note 4: Subsidiaries and affiliated research institutes of CETC, excluding Hikvision and its subsidiaries. 
 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
344 
5. Related Party Transactions 
 
(1)  Related party transactions regarding sales and purchases of goods, provision of services and receiving services 
 
Purchase of commodities / receiving of services: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction type 2024 2023 
Subsidiaries of CETC Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 1,897,826,757.19 2,411,065,827.96 
Joint ventures Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 7,651,968.58 2,839,703.41 
Associated companies Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 281,612,997.63 271,039,815.54 
Other related parties Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 1,189,645,482.17 1,286,613,375.22 
Total   3,376,737,205.57 3,971,558,722.13 
 
Sales of commodities / rendering of services: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction content 2024 2023 
Subsidiaries of CETC Sales of products and 
rendering of services 219,280,317.07 269,454,480.67 
Joint ventures Sales of products and 
rendering of services 34,879,502.21 69,056,009.44 
Associated companies Sales of products and 
rendering of services 34,474,131.86 66,706,135.61 
Other related parties Sales of products and 
rendering of services 22,004,352.43 24,122,066.41 
Total   310,638,303.57 429,338,692.13 
 
Fixed Asset Purchase and Sales: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction content 2024 2023 
Subsidiaries of CETC Purchase of fixed assets 1,317,219.10 - 
Total   1,317,219.10 - 
 
(2) Related party lease 
Unit: RMB 
Lessor Type of leased assets Rental fee confirmed in 2024 Rental fee confirmed in 2023 
Subsidiaries of CETC Equipment - 10,375,908.82 
Subsidiaries of CETC House 1,670,579.23 2,324,068.08 
Total   1,670,579.23 12,699,976.90 
 
(3) Compensation for key managers 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 
Compensation for key managers 31,903,090.50 42,555,350.07 
 
 (4) Other related party transactions 
Statement of capital deposits: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Content of related 
party transaction 
Amount occurred in 
2024 
Balance at the end of the 
current reporting period 
Amount occurred in 
2023 (restated) 
Opening balance 
(restated) 
Subsidiaries of CETC Deposit (withdraw 
from) (13,463,687.38) 4,000,183,725.74 5,482,952.03 4,013,647,413.12  
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
345 
Related party Content of related 
party transaction 
Amount occurred in 
2024 
Balance at the end of the 
current reporting period 
Amount occurred in 
2023 (restated) 
Opening balance 
(restated) 
Total   (13,463,687.38) 4,000,183,725.74 5,482,952.03 4,013,647,413.12  
 
Note: This represents the deposits made by the Group with China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd. The balance of 
time deposits at the end of this year is RMB4,000,000,000.00 (end of last year: RMB1,000,000,000.00), and the balance of 
demand deposits is RMB 183,725.74 (end of last year: RMB3,013,647,413.12). The interest income from deposits for this year 
is RMB 47,756,631.71. (last year: RMB81,945,762.01) 
 
Information on entrusted loans: 
 
In 2024, the Company issued entrusted loans to its subsidiaries through China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd. 
in the amount of RMB4,156,000,000.00 (last year: RMB2,523,000,000.00), and the amount of handling fees confirmed to 
China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd. was RMB415,600.00 (last year: RMB277,300.00). 
 
Information on Working Capital Borrowing: 
In 2024, Hikvision Automotive Technology Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of the Group, borrowed RMB150,000,000.00 in 
working capital from China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd.(last year: nil). The interest expense recognized for 
China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd. was RMB 128,333.33 (last year: nil). 
 
Information on Related Entrusted Management 
On April 10, 2024, EZVIS Network, a subsidiary of the Group, signed a agreement with the parent company, CETCHIK, 
for the entrustment management of Furui Technology. This transaction constituted a business combination under common 
control, see Note (VI), 1. Therefore, according to the agreement, EZVIS Network would pay management fee to CETCHIK. 
During the reporting year, the capital occupation fee of this transaction amounted to RMB 380,731.68. 
 
Others: 
During the reporting year, the Group received an international business subsidy of RMB 2,007,056.47 from the  actual 
controlling party, CETC. 
 
6. Receivables from Related Parties and Payables to Related Parties 
 
(1) Receivables from related parties 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Note receivables and 
account receivables 
financing 
Subsidiaries of 
CETC 
52,626,277.73 374,735.27 176,267,380.85 1,197,255.34  
Note receivables and 
account receivables 
financing 
Joint ventures 
13,352,890.19 - 400,000.00 - 
Note receivables and 
account receivables 
financing 
Associated 
companies 
4,392,879.50 - 22,277,196.50 - 
Note receivables and 
account receivables 
financing 
Other related 
parties 
1,908,892.17 - 1,215,030.00 - 
Total   72,280,939.59 374,735.27 200,159,607.35 1,197,255.34  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related Party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Account receivables Subsidiaries of 
CETC 486,103,594.64 150,460,535.70 640,493,055.77 220,124,781.15 
Account receivables Joint ventures 26,582,054.99 2,439,410.80 59,425,217.10 1,625,142.58 
Account receivables Associated 
companies 67,058,711.03 10,008,346.67 72,319,683.18 8,556,237.95 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
346 
Account receivables Other related 
parties 5,254,943.87 209,669.50 7,442,685.65  154,865.50 
Total  584,999,304.53 163,117,962.67 779,680,641.70 230,461,027.18 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Prepayments  Subsidiaries of CETC  1,357,188.83 7,831,067.74 
Prepayments  Associated companies 667,500.73 118,402.50 
Total  2,024,689.56 7,949,470.24 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Other 
receivables 
Subsidiaries of 
CETC 675,015.40 503,901.99 1,649,910.00 561,932.90 
Other 
receivables Joint ventures 45,506.53 373.15 191,713.33 6,768.82 
Other 
receivables 
Associated 
companies - - 4,387,500.00 30,273.75 
Total   720,521.93 504,275.14 6,229,123.33 598,975.47 
 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Carrying balance Credit loss provision 
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
 
Subsidiaries of CETC  119,906.12 983.23 47,210.22  325.75  
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Joint ventures 27,457,234.23 1,153,621.48 35,381,700.20  1,144,327.88  
Total   27,577,140.35 1,154,604.71 35,428,910.42  1,144,653.63  
 
 
(2) Payables to related parties 
Unit: RMB 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Notes payables Subsidiaries of CETC  5,438,628.32 1,224,954.15 
Notes payables Other related parties 1,570,383.71 4,390,639.49 
Total   7,009,012.03 5,615,593.64 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Account payables Subsidiaries of CETC 593,917,797.74 877,667,364.69 
Account payables Joint ventures 1,224,799.99 4,068,366.04 
Account payables Associated companies 114,410,719.92 43,869,241.50 
Account payables Other related parties 442,181,100.83 410,242,953.80 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Short-term borrowings Subsidiaries of CETC 150,128,333.33 - 
Total   150,128,333.33 - 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
347 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Total   1,151,734,418.48 1,335,847,926.03 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Contract liabilities Subsidiaries of CETC 4,070,684.79 6,277,318.83 
Contract liabilities Joint ventures 293,305.79 1,300,172.80 
Contract liabilities Associated companies  601,534.30 - 
Contract liabilities Other related parties 13,583.70 30,042.00 
Total   4,979,108.58 7,607,533.63 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Other payables Subsidiaries of CETC 6,619,267.43 8,230,611.43 
Other payables Joint ventures 59,892.75 - 
Other payables Associated companies 696,315.00 20,527,386.00 
Other payables Other related parties 413,000.00 250,000.00  
Total   7,788,475.18 29,007,997.43 
 
Unit: RMB 
 
Unit: RMB 
 
XII. Share-based Payments 
 
1. Overview of Share-based Payments 
 
Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme  
According to the Approval of the Implementation of the Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. (Guo Zi Fen Pei [2012] No. 426) issued by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration 
Commission of the State Council and the Opinion the Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme of Hangzhou Hikvision Digital 
Technology Co., Ltd. (Shang Shi Bu Han [20 12] No. 353) issued by China Securities Regulatory Commission, the 
Company convened the ninth meeting of the second session of the Board of Directors on July 25, 2012 and the first 
extraordinary general meeting for 2012 on August 13, 2012, whereat the Proposal Relating to the Restrictive Share Scheme 
(Amendments to the Draft) of the Company and Highlights was reviewed and passed. The purpose of the Share Incentive 
Scheme is to: further improve the Company 's governance structure to establish a good and balan ced value allocation 
system; establish a profit-sharing and restriction mechanism among shareholders, the Company and its employees, so as 
to provide shareholders with sustainable return; fully mobilize the positivity of core employees to support the Compa ny 
in realizing its strategies and long -term sustainable development; attract and retain core employees to ensure the 
Company's long-term development. 
 
The Scheme shall be effective for a term of 10 years commencing from the date of approval by general mee ting of the 
Company, during which the Company may grant restricted shares to grantees under the Scheme. In principle, each grant 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance  
Lease liabilities (including those 
due within one year) Subsidiaries of CETC - 5,215,883.84 
Total   - 5,215,883.84 
Item Related Party Closing balance Opening balance 
(restated) 
Long-term payables Subsidiaries of CETC 9,749,569.60 9,749,569.60 
Total   9,749,569.60 9,749,569.60 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
348 
should be at an interval of two years. After the expiry of the Scheme, no restricted shares could be granted to grantees 
under the Scheme. However, all the provisions of the Scheme remain valid to the restricted shares granted under the 
Scheme. 
 
Each batch of restricted shares shall not be unlocked unless fulfilling, each time, by the Company its unlock performance 
criteria (inclu ding net asset yield, revenue growth rate, and economic value added), and by grantees ' individual 
performance criteria simultaneously. Where, during the unlocking period, any one or more unlock criteria for the Company 
or individuals is or are not fulfilled, such portion of subject shares shall be cancelled. The cancelled restricted shares will 
be repurchased by the Company based on the relevant regulations under the scheme. 
 
On January 18, 2022, authorized by the 1st extraordinary general meeting of 2022 and reviewed by the Board of Directors, 
the Company granted 97,402,605 restricted shares to grantees at a grant price of RMB29.71 per share ("2021 Share 
Incentive Scheme"). The Lock-up Period of the Subject Shares shall last for a period of 24 months commen cing on the 
grant date, during which the Subject Shares granted to grantees under the scheme shall be subject to lock -up and are not 
transferable. The Unlocking Period shall be the 24 to 60 months following the grant of restricted shares (including Lock-
up Period), during which grantees may, subject to unlocking conditions stipulated by the scheme being satisfied, apply for 
unlocking in 3 tranches: the first unlocking period shall be the 24 to 36 months following the grant date and the number 
of shares to be unlocked shall be 40% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted; the second unlocking period 
shall be the 36 to 48 months following the grant date and the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate 
number of the Subject Shares granted; the third unlocking period shall be the 48 to 60 months following the grant date and 
the number of shares to be unlocked shall be 30% of the aggregate number of the Subject Shares granted. The Company 
has completed the equity registration work in February 2022. 
Unit: share 
2021 Share Incentive Scheme 2024 2023 
Total of equity instruments outstanding at the beginning of the 
reporting period 58,441,563 97,402,605 
Total of equity instruments granted (share dividend) during the current 
reporting period - - 
Total of equity instruments vested during the current reporting period - - 
Total of equity instruments forfeited during the current reporting 
period (Note) 58,441,563 38,961,042 
Total of equity instruments outstanding at the end of the reporting 
period - 58,441,563  
The exercise price (ex-rights) of the outstanding Share-based payments 
of the Company at the end of the reporting period and the remaining 
period of the contract 
Inapplicable 29.71/share and 36 months 
Note: The termination of share-based payments for the year is detailed in Note (XII), 4. 
 
Share Incentive Scheme of Staff Co-Investment in Innovative Businesses 
 
On October 22, 2015, the Company considered and approved Management Measures for Core Staff Co -Investment in 
Innovative Businesses (Draft) (hereafter referred to as "Management Measures") at the 2nd extraordinary general meeting. 
On March 7, 2016, representative congress of labor union of Hikvision passed Implementation Provisions for Management 
Measures for Core  Staff Investment in Innovative Businesses  (hereafter referred to as "Provisions"), to initiate and 
implement the incentive mechanism of staff co -investment (hereafter referred to as "Staff Co -Investment Plan") in 
innovative business subsidiaries. Staff wh o participate in the Staff Co -Investment Plan (hereafter referred to as "Co -
Investment Staff") signed an Entrusted Investment Agreement  with the labor union committee of Hikvision (hereafter 
referred to as "Hikvision Labor Union"), to entrust Hikvision Labor Union to make investments. Hikvision Labor Union, 
as a principal, shall cooperate with a trust company, which shall be a limited partner (LP) of a partnership enterprise, to 
establish a trust plan, and to invest trust funds into innovative business subsidiaries. (Investment form described above is 
referred to as "Co-Investment Platform"). 
 
Staff Investment Plan is classified as plan A and plan B according to applicable grantees. Grantees of plan A are comprised 
of medium-and-senior level management personnel and core competent staff from the Company and its subsidiaries are 
able to invest in all innovative businesses. Grantees of plan B are comprised of core and full -time staff from innovative 
business subsidiaries, and could participate in investment on innovative business subsidiaries and their subsidiaries where 
they serve. The Co-Investment Platform will increase capitals annually, the corresponding increased equity of which will 
be distributed to core staff who meets investment conditions pursuant to particular rules. The waiting period shall be five 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
349 
years after equity of Co -Investment Platform is held by the staff. Within the waiting period, if the labor relationship 
between the grantees and the Company or its subsidiaries is released or terminated, equity of Co-Investment Platform held 
by the grantees shall be refunded and settled by the labor union at an agreed price pursuant to the Provisions. 
 
The Co-Investment Platform grants Co -Investment Staff additional equity annually. The Company determines w hether 
share-based payment shall be constituted based on the fair value of equity instruments newly obtained by the Group's staff 
in Co-Investment Platform on each granting date. On December 25, 2020, the Company held the 20 th meetings of 4 th 
session of the Board of Directors, which reviewed and approved the Proposal on Revising Management Measures for Core 
Staff Co-Investment in Innovative Businesses. The updated version of Management Measures for Core Staff Co-Investment 
in Innovative Businesses (hereinafter referred to as "updated version of Management Measures"), The new version adds 
rules relating to the confirmation of shares held directly by employees under Staff Co -Investment Plan and equities of 
innovative business subsidiaries held indirectly by employees, clarifies the treatment of shares under Co-Investment Plan 
after the disqualification about co-investment of employees, adds rules of management committee.  
 
On December 31, 2020, the Executive management committee of the Co -Investment Plan approved the Provisions for 
Management Measures for Core Staff Investment in Innovative Businesses (hereafter referred to as "New Provisions". In 
accordance of the New Provisions, for the confirmed Plan A shares, the waiting period is five years since the employ ee 
has worked for the Company or its subsidiaries and for the confirmed share of Plan B, the waiting period is five years 
since the employee has worked for the innovative business subsidiary corresponding to the Plan B or its subsidiaries. 
 
2. Information of the Share-based Payment through Equity Settlements 
 
Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme 
Unit: RMB 
 2021 Share Incentive Scheme 
Method of determine the fair value of equity instruments at the grant date Determined based on stock price at the grant date and the 
costs of restricted shares during Lock-up Period 
Recognition basis of the number of the equity instruments qualified for 
vesting 
Determined based on the results estimation of each 
vesting period and turnover rate 
Reasons of the significant difference between the estimates of the current 
reporting period with that of the prior year None 
Accumulative amount of share-based payment through equity settlement and 
further included in the capital reserve 
1,111,285,178.76 
Total amount of the expenses recognized according to share-based payment 
through equity settlement in the current reporting period 
542,914,217.71 
 
 
Share Incentive Scheme of Staff Co-Investment in Innovative Businesses 
Unit: RMB 
 Share Incentive Scheme of Staff Co-Investment in 
Innovative Businesses 
Method of determining the fair value of equity instruments at the grant date Evaluated and determined based on income method at the 
grant date 
Recognition basis of the number of the equity instruments qualified for 
vesting 
Estimated based on the turnover rate of each vesting period 
Accumulative amount of share-based payment through equity settlement and 
further included in the capital reserve 951,891,607.26  
Total amount of the expenses recognized according to share -based payment 
through equity settlement in the current reporting period 322,514,354.88  
 
RMB83,074,508.22 of the total expenses of paid and confirmed by equity settlements was shared by minority shareholders. 
 
3. There is no share-based payment through cash settlements 
 
4. Information on modification or termination of share-based payment during the current reporting period 
 
Restrictive Share Incentive Scheme 
Given the current operating environment, which has changed significantly since the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan was 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
350 
formulated, continuing to implement this plan to achieve the expected incentive objectives and effects has become more 
challenging. On April 18, 2024, the Company convened the 20th meeting of the 5th Board of Directors and the 18th meeting 
of the 5 th Board of Supervisors, and on May 10, 2024, the 2023 Annual General Meeting was held. These meetings 
reviewed and approved the Proposal on the Termi nation of the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and Repurchase and 
Cancellation of Related Restricted Stocks . The Company agreed to terminate the 2021 Restricted Stock Plan and 
repurchase and cancel all restricted stocks that have been granted but not yet unlocked under the 2021 Restricted Stock 
Plan. The cancellation registration was completed on August 15, 2024. According to the relevant provisions of the 
Enterprise Accounting Standards, the company has processed the accelerated exercise of this termination of the restricted 
stock plan and recognized a share-based payment expense of RMB 471,167,293.91. 
 
XIII. Commitments and Contingencies 
1. Significant Commitments 
 
(1) Capital commitments 
Unit: RMB '000 
  Closing balance Opening balance 
Contracted but not yet recognized in financial statements   
- Commitment on construction of long-term assets 4,782,225 12,527,408 
- Commitment on external investments 2,440 12,940 
Total 4,784,665 12,540,348 
 
2. Contingencies 
 
There are no material contingencies that need to be disclosed by the Group. 
 
XIV. Events after the Balance Sheet Date 
 
1. Significant Unadjusted Events 
 
As of April 17, 2025, the company has no material post-balance sheet events to disclose. 
 
2. Profit Distribution 
 
Pursuant to the proposal of the 5 th meeting of the 6 th session of the Board of Directors on April 17, 202 5, the Company 
proposed to distribute cash dividend of RMB7.00 (tax inclusive) per each 10 shares to all shareholders. The above dividend 
distribution plan is still subject to the approval of the general meeting of shareholders. 
 
XV. Other Significant Events 
 
1. Segment Information  
 
1.1 Report segment determining and accounting policy 
 
According to the Group's internal organization structure, management requirements and internal report principles, the 
Group has only one operating segment, which is the research and development, production and sales of AIoT products and 
services. 
 
 
External revenue by geographical area & non-current assets by geographical location 
 Unit: RMB 
                                                  Hikvision 2024 Annual Report                                                               
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
351 
Item 2024 2023 (Restated) 
External revenue generated in domestic area 60,601,005,007.24 60,373,572,006.00 
External revenue generated in overseas area 31,894,520,111.06 28,967,605,604.40 
Total 92,495,525,118.30 89,341,177,610.40 
 
 Unit: RMB 
Item (Note) On December 31, 2024 On January 1, 2024 (restated) 
Non-current assets in domestic area 24,071,063,742.13 20,706,538,602.69 
Non-current assets in overseas area 878,754,968.19 850,027,281.25 
Total 24,949,818,710.32 21,556,565,883.94 
 
Note: the non -current assets above did not include other non -current financial assets, long -term receivables, long-term 
equity investment, and deferred tax assets. 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
352 
XVI. Notes to Major Items of Financial Statements of the Parent Company  
1. Accounts Receivable 
 
(1) Disclosure by aging 
Unit: RMB 
 Book balance on December 31, 2024 Book balance on January 1, 2024 
Within credit period 2,290,185,031.06 9,090,405,506.46 
Within 1 year after exceeding credit period 22,956,416,334.33 9,384,300,440.80 
1-2 years after exceeding credit period 445,308,144.39  508,157,816.90 
2-3 years after exceeding credit period 276,803,705.22  311,172,302.13 
3-4 years after exceeding credit period 220,698,222.82  177,209,156.93 
Over 4 years after exceeding credit period 304,329,300.13  215,593,619.38 
Subtotal 26,493,740,737.95  19,686,838,842.60 
Less: bad debts provisions 760,119,868.00  670,061,176.83 
Book value 25,733,620,869.95 19,016,777,665.77 
 
 
(2) Classification and disclosure of by bad debts provision methods 
Unit: RMB  
Category 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Book value Carrying balance Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount 
Provision 
for bad 
debts on a 
- - - - - - - - - - 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
353 
Category 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Credit loss provision Book value Carrying balance Credit loss provision Book value 
Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount Percentage 
(%) Amount 
single basis 
Provision 
for bad 
debts by 
portfolios 
26,493,740,737.9
5  
100.00 
760,119,868.0
0  
2.87  
25,733,620,869.9
5 
19,686,838,842.60 100.00 670,061,176.83 3.40 19,016,777,665.77 
Total 
26,493,740,737.9
5  
100.00 
760,119,868.0
0  
2.87  
25,733,620,869.9
5 
19,686,838,842.6
0 
100.00 670,061,176.83 3.40 
19,016,777,665.7
7 
 
Accounts receivable provision for bad debts by portfolios  
Unit: RMB 
Customer 
Closing balance 
Carrying balance Bad debts provision Proportion (%) 
Subsidiaries in the Group 22,467,680,384.77 -    -    
Portfolio A 627,695.51  285,820.56  45.53  
Portfolio B 4,025,308,111.44  759,709,501.21  18.87  
Portfolio C 124,546.23  124,546.23  100.00  
Total  26,493,740,737.95  760,119,868.00  2.87  
 
Description of accounts receivable for bad debts provision by portfolios 
  
As part of the Company's credit risk management, the Company's accounts receivable are divided into portfolio A, portfolio B and portfolio C according to the regional 
and object risk characteristics of the business, and the impairment matrix is used to determine the expected credit loss of each portfolio based on the aging of accounts 
receivable over credit period. For the accounts receivable generated by the Group's subsidiaries, because the payment time is arranged by the Group according to the 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
354 
cash flow of the companies in the Group, the Company believes that the credit risk is low and no provision for bad debts is required. The aging information can reflect 
the solvency of these three types of customers when the accounts receivable are due. 
 
(3) Bad debts provision 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Amount at the opening 
balance 
Changes in the year Translation differences 
for foreign currency 
statements 
Amount at the closing 
balance Accrual 
Provision /Recollect or 
Reverse 
Transfer or write-off 
Account receivables  670,061,176.83 112,125,417.00 - 22,066,725.83 - 760,119,868.00 
Total  670,061,176.83 112,125,417.00 - 22,066,725.83 - 760,119,868.00 
 
 
(4) Top five debtors based on corresponding closing balance of accounts receivable and contract assets (including the part included in other non-current assets) 
 
At the end of the year, the aggregate amount of the Company's top five accounts receivable and contract assets was RMB 22,424,089,493.28 (including account 
receivables of RMB 22,423,905,493.31 and contract assets of RMB183,999.97), accounting for 84.47% of the total balance of accounts receivable and contract assets 
at the end of the year, and the provision for bad debts amounted to RMB62,873,002.90.  
 
2. Other Receivables 
 
2.1 By ccategories 
Unit: RMB 
Category Closing balance Opening balance 
Dividend receivables - 41,423,446.39 
Other receivables  4,405,567,174.71 3,019,822,728.35 
Total  4,405,567,174.71 3,061,246,174.74 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
355 
 
2.2 Dividend receivables 
Unit: RMB 
Investees Closing balance Opening balance 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision - 41,423,446.39 
Total - 41,423,446.39 
 
2.3 Other receivables  
(1) Other receivables by aging  
 Unit: RMB 
Aging Closing balance Opening balance 
Within contract period  4,373,247,408.09 2,989,035,526.46 
Within 1 year  24,122,882.75 24,581,596.42 
1-2 years  7,395,888.61  8,955,049.99 
2-3 years 6,172,540.83  1,282,544.62 
3-4 years 1,215,236.36 120,699.57 
Over 4 years 754,319.10 961,843.47 
Subtotal 4,412,908,275.74 3,024,937,260.53 
Less: bad debts provision 7,341,101.03 5,114,532.18 
Book value 4,405,567,174.71 3,019,822,728.35 
 
 
 
 
 (2) Other receivables by nature of the payment 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
356 
Unit: RMB 
Nature Closing balance Opening balance 
Payments of subsidiaries within the Group 4,305,122,194.83 2,761,272,567.36 
Guarantee deposit 59,508,337.34 54,134,994.62 
Temporary payments for receivables 38,710,852.68 24,622,620.38  
Restricted stock repurchase payments  - 169,968,816.44 
Others 9,566,890.89 14,938,261.73 
Total 4,412,908,275.74 3,024,937,260.53 
 
(3) Provision for bad debts of other receivables 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
Amount at the opening 
balance 
Changes in the year Translation differences 
for foreign currency 
statements 
Amount at the closing 
balance Accrual 
Provision/ Recollect 
or Reverse k 
Transfer or write-off 
Other receivables 5,114,532.18 2,286,568.85 - 60,000.00 - 7,341,101.03 
total 5,114,532.18 2,286,568.85 - 60,000.00 - 7,341,101.03 
 
(4) Top 5 debtors of other receivables in terms of closing balance  
At the end of the year, the total amount of the top five other receivables of the Company was RMB 3,457,501,957.43, accounting for 78.35% of the total balance of 
other receivables at the end of the year, without provision for bad debts. 
  
 
 
3. Long-term Equity Investment 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
357 
Unit: RMB 
Item  
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance Provisions Book value Carrying balance Provisions Book value 
Investment in subsidiaries 8,234,997,797.96 - 8,234,997,797.96 7,687,757,432.17 - 7,687,757,432.17 
Investments in associated enterprises and joint ventures 1,251,972,687.05 - 1,251,972,687.05 993,629,616.58 - 993,629,616.58 
Total  9,486,970,485.01 - 9,486,970,485.01 8,681,387,048.75 - 8,681,387,048.75 
 
 
(1) Investment in main subsidiaries 
Unit: RMB 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during 
the current 
reporting period 
Decrease during 
the current 
reporting period 
Closing balance 
Write-off of impairment 
provision during the current 
reporting period 
Balance of impairment loss 
provision at the end of the 
current reporting period 
Hangzhou Hikvision System 
Technology Ltd. 
871,010,043.28 32,755,718.20 - 903,765,761.48 - - 
Hangzhou Hikvision 
Technology Ltd. 
1,094,395,525.01 21,719,081.66 - 1,116,114,606.67 - - 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Network 
Co., Ltd. 
60,702,158.47 499,663.48 - 61,201,821.95 - - 
Hangzhou EZVIZ Software 
Ltd. 
32,363,130.04 255,276.01 - 32,618,406.05 - - 
Hangzhou Hikrobot 
Technology Co., Ltd. 
137,754,908.94 1,663,630.09 - 139,418,539.03 - - 
Hangzhou Haikang 8,546,368.08 485,830.22 - 9,032,198.30 - - 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
358 
Name of investee Opening balance 
Increase during 
the current 
reporting period 
Decrease during 
the current 
reporting period 
Closing balance 
Write-off of impairment 
provision during the current 
reporting period 
Balance of impairment loss 
provision at the end of the 
current reporting period 
Intelligence Ltd. 
Note: the increase this year is due to the participation of subsidiary employees in the restricted stock incentive plan. 
 
(2) Investments in associated enterprises and joint ventures 
Unit: RMB 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/ Decrease in the current reporting period  
Closing balance 
Balance of 
impairment loss 
provision at the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Additional 
investments 
Reduced 
investments 
Investment income 
(losses) recognized 
under the equity 
method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Other changes in 
equity 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
1. Joint Ventures 
Hangzhou 
Haikang 
Intelligent 
Industrial Equity 
Investment Fund 
Partnership (L.P.)  
791,356,253.14 - - 19,685,451.64 - 57,022,183.13 - - - 868,063,887.91 - 
Zhejiang City 
Digital 
Technology Ltd. 
29,635,485.61 - - (3,765,849.98) - - (5,792,258.59) - - 20,077,377.04 - 
Zhejiang Haishi 
Huayue Digital 
Technology Ltd. 
14,067,281.65 - - (362,700.73) - - - - - 13,704,580.92 - 
                                                                                      Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
 
359 
Name of 
investee 
Opening balance 
Increase/ Decrease in the current reporting period  
Closing balance 
Balance of 
impairment loss 
provision at the 
end of the current 
reporting period 
Additional 
investments 
Reduced 
investments 
Investment income 
(losses) recognized 
under the equity 
method 
Other 
comprehensive 
income 
adjustment 
Other changes in 
equity 
Declared cash 
dividends or 
profit 
distribution 
Provision 
for 
impairment 
Others 
Guangxi Haishi 
Urban Operation 
Management Ltd. 
12,450,335.88 - - (1,000,853.49) - - - - - 11,449,482.39 - 
Xuzhou Kangbo 
Urban Operation 
Management 
Service Ltd. 
11,052,348.36 - - (206,602.05) - - - - - 10,845,746.31 - 
Others 5,172,387.15 10,500,000.00 - (11,155,902.19) - - - - - 4,516,484.96  
Subtotal 863,734,091.79 10,500,000.00 - 3,193,543.20 - 57,022,183.13 (5,792,258.59) - - 928,657,559.53 - 
2. Associated Companies 
Zhiguang Hailian 
Big Data 
Technology Ltd.  
23,245,373.00 - - 1,452,571.42 - - (300,000.00) - - 24,397,944.42 - 
Others 106,650,151.79 3,000,000.00 - 21,356,906.12 - 167,910,125.19 - - - 298,917,183.10  
Subtotal  129,895,524.79 3,000,000.00 - 22,809,477.54 - 167,910,125.19 (300,000.00) - - 323,315,127.52 - 
Total  993,629,616.58 13,500,000.00 - 26,003,020.74 - 224,932,308.32 (6,092,258.59) - - 1,251,972,687.05 - 
 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
360 
4. Revenue/cost of sales and services 
Unit: RMB 
Item 
2024 2023 (Restated) 
Revenue Cost Revenue Cost 
Major business 20,681,004,485.86 4,216,128,688.84  21,953,642,926.65 4,391,881,105.71 
Other business 3,467,417,117.50 267,226,838.09 3,594,151,240.20 165,553,488.34 
Total 24,148,421,603.36 4,483,355,526.93  25,547,794,166.85  4,557,434,594.05 
 
5. Investment Income 
Unit: RMB 
Item 2024 2023 
Long-term equity investment income calculated by the cost 
method 292,456,924.76 424,509,196.39 
Investment income of other non-current financial assets 
during the holding period  61,241,171.99 65,923,840.33 
Investment income from debt investments 45,379,372.42 30,076,287.42 
Long-term equity investment income(losses) measured by 
the equity method 26,003,020.74 (36,401,170.84) 
Income from debt restructuring 3,878,687.69 - 
Investment income from disposal of business assets - 15,902,073.63 
Others  - (399,071.78) 
Total  428,959,177.60 499,611,155.15 
 
6. Related Party Transactions 
 
(1) Sales and purchase of goods, provision of services and receiving services 
 
Purchase of goods/ receiving of services: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction type 2024 2023 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision 
(Note) 
Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 5,395,302,179.33 5,307,205,803.18 
Subsidiaries of CETC Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 32,664,227.51 51,579,706.89 
Joint ventures Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 807,264.14 547,169.80 
Associated companies Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 469,026.55 71,939,278.00 
Other related parties Purchase of materials and 
receiving of services 17,127.81 20,000,000.00 
Total  5,429,259,825.34 5,451,271,957.87 
 
Note: Subsidiaries of Hikvision are subsidiaries of the Company.  
 
 
 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
361 
 
 
Sales of goods/ rendering of services: 
Unit: RMB 
Related party Transaction type 2024 2023 
Subsidiaries of Hikvision  Sales of products and 
rendering of services 19,131,105,118.11 20,445,938,282.22 
Subsidiaries of CETC 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
24,866,715.09 53,550,416.34 
Joint ventures 
Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
1,673,502.60 7,910,493.83 
Other related parties Sales of products and 
rendering of services 
5,753,689.86 5,660,404.06 
Total  19,163,399,025.66 20,513,059,596.45 
 
(2) Related party lease 
Unit: RMB 
Lessor  Lease type Lease fee recognized in 2024 Lease fee recognized in 2023 
Subsidiaries of CETC House 1,670,579.23 2,324,068.08 
Total  1,670,579.23 2,324,068.08 
 
 
(3) Guarantees with related parties 
In the current reporting period, the Company has provided guarantees for its 31 subsidiaries in an amount not 
exceeding an equivalent of RMB16.68 billion (2023: RMB21.74 billion). 
 
(4) Funding to related parties 
To meet the funding needs for research and development, the Company, together with the Group 's subsidiaries 
Hangzhou System, Hangzhou Rayin Technology, HikStorage Technology, HikMicro Sensing, HikRobot, HikAuto 
Software, and Hangzhou Hikvision Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the "loan user companies"), and 
several banks have signed a long -term loan agreement for unified bo rrowing and repayment. Under this loan 
arrangement, the Company acts as the borrower, the loan user companies act as the users, and several banks are the 
lenders. The loan user companies apply for loans through the Company based on their own comprehensive funding 
needs including R&D projects, which are then approved by the banks. After approval, the loans are disbursed from 
the Company to the loan user companies. The loan term runs from December 31, 2021, to December 2, 2026. As of 
December 31, 2024, RMB 1,066,600,000.00 (previous year: RMB 3,427,994,954.00) of the Company's long-term 
receivables represents loans that have been applied for by the loan user companies. In 2024, interest income 
recognized was RMB 56,565,166.27 (previous year: RMB 75,642,852.46). 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
362 
 
 (5) Other related party transactions 
 
Statement of capital deposits  
Unit: RMB 
Note: For the deposit that the Company deposited into China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd., the total 
fixed deposit amount by the end of 2024 is RMB4,000,000,000.00 (2023: RMB 1,000,000,000.00), the current 
deposit amount by the end of 2024 is RMB 101,015.82  (2023: RMB3,005,019,349.88) and the deposit interest 
income is RMB47,752,259.82 in 2024 (2023: RMB 81,941,288.77 ). 
 
Statement of entrusted lending 
In April 2024, the Company convened the 20th meeting of the 5th Board of Directors, which deliberated and approved 
the Proposal on Providing Financial Assistance to Subsidiaries. The Company will provide related-party loan limits 
of up to RMB 800 million each to Hangzhou HikImaging Electronics Ltd. and Zhejiang HikFire Technology Co., 
Ltd., (hereafter referred to as "Zhejiang Hikfire"). These loans are intended to meet the operating capital needs of 
each innovative business subsidiary, with specific loan amounts provided b ased on actual business requirements. 
The proposal was approved by the Company 's shareholders' meeting on May 10, 2024. The validity period of the 
related-party loan limits is three years from the date of approval by the shareholders ' meeting, and the limi ts 
(balances) can be used in batches and cycled within the validity period. The annual interest rate for related -party 
loans will be determined through negotiation between the parties, in compliance with relevant laws and regulations, 
and will be set according to market principles, with specific terms outlined in the contract. Upon the effectiveness 
of this proposal, any unused portion of the related-party loan limit obtained by Zhejiang HikFire on April 15, 2023, 
automatically become invalid 
 
In April 2023, the Company convened the 17th meeting of the 5th Board of Directors, which reviewed and approved 
the Proposal on Providing Financial Assistance to Subsidiaries . The proposal includes providing affiliated loan 
limits of up to RMB 600 million to HikImaging  Technology, RMB 600 million to Hangzhou Rayin Techonology, 
RMB 400 million to Hikfire Technology, RMB 200 million to Zhejiang HikFire, and RMB 500 million to Wuhu 
Sensortech. These funds are intended to meet the operational funding needs of each innovative business subsidiary, 
with specific loan amounts determined based on actual business requirements. The resolution was approved by the 
company's shareholders on April 15, 2023. The validity period of the affiliated loan limits is three years from the 
Related Party (Note) 
Content of related party 
transaction 
Amount occurred 
during the current 
reporting period 
Closing balance at 
the end of the 
current reporting 
period 
Amount occurred 
during the prior 
reporting period 
Opening balance at 
the beginning of 
the current 
reporting period 
Subsidiaries of CETC 
Deposit into (withdraw 
from) current deposits 
(4,918,334.06) 4,000,101,015.82 4,985,831.20  
4,005,019,349
.88 
Total  (4,918,334.06) 4,000,101,015.82 4,985,831.20  
4,005,019,349
.88 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
363 
date of approval by the shareholders, and the limits (balances) can be used in batches and recycled within the validity 
period. The annual interest rate for affiliated loans will be determined through negotiation between the parties in 
compliance with relevant laws and regulations, and will be set according to market principles, with specific terms 
specified in the contract. Upon the effectiveness of this resolution, any unused affiliated loan limits obtained by 
HikImagingTechnology, Hangzhou Rayin Technology, and HikFire Technology on May 13, 2022, automatically 
become invalid.  
 
During the current reporting year, the Company issued entrusted loans to its subsidiaries through China Electronics 
Technology Finance Co., Ltd. in the amount of RMB 4,156,000,000.00 (p revious year: RMB 2,523,000,000.00). 
The investment income recognized from entrusted loans was RMB 45,379,372.42 (previous year: RMB 
30,076,287.42), and the handling fees recognized for China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd. were RMB 
415,600.00 (previous year: RMB 277,300.00). At the end of the reporting year, the balance of entrusted loans issued 
by the Company through China Electronics Technology Finance Co., Ltd. to its subsidiaries was RMB 
1,705,000,000.00 (end of previous year: RMB 1,663,000,000.00). 
 
Other 
During the year, the Company received RMB 820,937.88 as an international operation subsidy from its actual 
controlling party, CETC. 
 
7. Receivables from Related Parties and Payables to Related Parties 
 
(1) Receivables from related parties 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Notes receivable and  
receivables for financing 
Subsidiaries 
of Hikvision 
37,741,590.86 - 78,686,478.44 - 
Notes receivable and 
receivables for financing 
Subsidiaries 
of CETC 
10,513,675.00 86,212.14 30,036,696.08 207,253.20 
Notes receivable and 
receivables for financing 
Associates 552,692.21 - - - 
Total  48,807,958.07 86,212.14 108,723,174.52 207,253.20 
 
Unit: RMB 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
364 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Account receivables 
Subsidiaries of 
Hikvision 
22,467,680,384.77 - 15,710,430,253.38 - 
Account receivables Subsidiaries of CETC  178,548,603.77  83,196,754.77 239,193,519.53 93,713,214.14 
Account receivables Joint ventures 6,892,208.90  902,328.46 8,035,455.55 368,023.86 
Account receivables Associates 9,332,521.72  6,872,408.87 8,012,788.72 4,626,280.98 
Account receivables Other related parties 3,223,980.57  82,171.25 2,789,778.82 54,524.86 
Total  22,665,677,699.73 91,053,663.35 15,968,461,796.00 98,762,043.84 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Prepayments Subsidiaries of Hikvision 168,075,014.96 1,849,870.06 
Prepayments Subsidiaries of CETC 546,123.27 2,023,660.38 
Total  168,621,138.23 3,873,530.44 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Other receivables (not 
including dividend  
receivables) 
Subsidiaries of 
Hikvision 
4,305,122,194.83 - 2,761,272,567.36 - 
Other receivables (not 
including dividend  
receivables) 
Subsidiaries of 
CETC 
125,015.40 1,256.99 1,149,910.00 218,482.90 
Other receivables (not 
including dividend  
receivables) 
Joint ventures  10,630.33 87.17 16,837.13 116.18 
Other receivables (not 
including dividend  
receivables) 
Associates - - 1,012,500.00 6,986.25 
Total  4,305,257,840.56 1,344.16 2,763,451,814.49 225,585.33 
 
 
Unit: RMB 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
365 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Dividend receivable 
Subsidiaries of 
Hikvision 
- - 41,423,446.39 - 
Total  - - 41,423,446.39 - 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Other current assets Subsidiaries of Hikvision 1,705,000,000.00 1,663,000,000.00 
Total  1,705,000,000.00 1,663,000,000.00 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party 
Closing balance Opening balance 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Carrying balance 
Bad debts 
provision 
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Subsidiaries of 
Hikvision 
1,066,600,000.00 - 3,427,994,954.00 - 
Long-term 
receivables 
(including those due 
within one year) 
Subsidiaries of CETC 119,906.12 983.23 47,210.22 325.75 
Total  1,066,719,906.12 983.23 3,428,042,164.22 325.75 
 
(2) Payables to related parties 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Accounts payable Subsidiaries of Hikvision 689,778,641.24 723,182,432.60 
Accounts payable Subsidiaries of CETC 10,610,293.12 9,360,219.51 
Total  700,388,934.36 732,542,652.11 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Contract liabilities  Subsidiaries of Hikvision 1,120,699.61 6,294,170.87 
Contract liabilities  Subsidiaries of CETC 433,257.00 382,321.75 
Contract liabilities  Other related parties 1,000.50 2,052.00 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
366 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Total  1,554,957.11 6,678,544.62 
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Other payables  Subsidiaries of Hikvision 247,950,838.31 105,286,603.62 
Other payables  Subsidiaries of CETC 529,940.00 640,040.00 
Other payables  Joint ventures 6,000.00 - 
Other payables Associates 10,000.00 19,996,880.00 
Other payables  Other related parties 113,000.00 100,000.00 
Total  248,609,778.31 126,023,523.62  
 
Unit: RMB 
Item Related party Closing balance Opening balance 
Lease liabilities (including 
those due within one year) Subsidiaries of CETC - 5,215,883.84 
Total  - 5,215,883.84 
 
8. Supplementary Information to the Cash Flow Statement 
 
(1) Supplementary information to the cash flow statement 
Unit: RMB 
Supplementary information 2024 2023 
1. Reconciliation of net profit to cash flows from operating 
activities:   
   Net profit 9,484,641,144.09 10,552,055,515.88 
   Add: Assets impairment provision 98,433.91 (2,652,989.00) 
       Credit loss provision 114,296,061.01 98,343,814.70 
 Depreciation of fixed assets 400,803,736.88 394,552,937.63 
 Amortization of intangible assets 11,963,785.89 19,203,854.89 
Depreciation of right of use assets 43,289,525.77 60,032,344.15 
       Amortization of long-term deferred expenses 21,896,303.07 18,328,579.31 
   Losses (gains) on disposal of fixed assets, 
intangible assets and other long-term assets 7,215,529.29 (1,072,329.19) 
    Financial expenses 37,079,820.87 113,727,235.45 
 Losses(gains)from change in fair value 31,637,646.48 (2,475,310.72) 
 Investment losses(gains (425,080,489.91) (499,611,155.15)  
 Share-based payment through equity settlement 465,571,241.07 87,813,763.64 
 Decrease (increase) in restricted funds (11,358,859.44) 43,774,289.78 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
367 
Supplementary information 2024 2023 
 Decrease (increase) in deferred income tax assets 16,231,468.48 (152,253,958.67)  
 Decrease in inventories 55,453,299.85 91,007,632.42 
 Decrease (increase) in operating receivables (7,821,898,315.65) 4,966,174,990.63 
 Increase (decrease) in operating payables (703,839,540.74) 838,972,476.93 
       Increase (decrease) in deferred income (44,429,536.28) (53,059,016.05) 
   Net cash flow from operating activities 1,683,571,254.64 16,572,862,676.63 
2. Net change in cash and cash equivalents:   
   Closing balance of cash 22,790,271,523.04 36,354,702,554.38 
   Less: Opening balance of cash 36,354,702,554.38 27,771,201,246.40 
   Add: Closing balance of cash equivalents - - 
   Less: Opening balance of cash equivalents - - 
   Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (13,564,431,031.34) 8,583,501,307.98   
 
 
(2) Composition of cash and cash equivalents 
Unit: RMB 
Item Closing balance Opening balance 
I. Cash   22,790,271,523.04   36,354,702,554.38 
  Including: Cash on hand   252,041.30   311,652.18   
           Bank deposit for payment at any time   22,699,753,574.91   36,354,378,020.77   
           Other currency funds for payment at any time   90,265,906.83   12,881.43   
II. Cash equivalents - - 
III. Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents   22,790,271,523.04   36,354,702,554.38   
 
On December 31, 2024, the Company's closing balance of other currency funds was RMB 113,532,375.06 
(December 31, 2023: RMB 11,920,490.22), of which RMB 23,266,468.23 (December 31, 2023: RMB 
11,907,608.79) were various guarantee deposits, other restricted funds, and etc., not cash or cash equivalents.  
XVII. Supplementary Information 
1. Details of Non-Recurring Profit or Loss  
Unit: RMB 
Item Amount Description 
Profit or loss from disposal of non-current assets (14,862,769.68) / 
The government subsidies recognized in the current period's 
profit or loss, except for those closely related to the company's 
normal operations, in compliance with national policy, and 
566,828,064.11 / 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
Notes to Financial Statements 
For the reporting period from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024 
 
368 
Item Amount Description 
enjoyed according to established standards, which have a 
sustained impact on the company's profit or loss. 
Apart from the effective hedging activities related to the 
company's normal business operations, the fair value changes in 
financial assets and financial liabilities held by non -financial 
enterprises, as well as the gains or losses from the disposal of 
these financial assets and liabilities. 
41,760,525.08 / 
The current period net income of subsidiaries constituting 
business combination under common control from the start of 
the period to the combination date  
(295,677.15) / 
Income or loss from debt restructuring 101,109,433.26 / 
The share-based payment expenses recognized in one-time due 
to the cancellation or amendment of the equity incentive plan (471,167,293.91) / 
Other non-operating income and expense except the items 
mentioned above 53,766,054.09 / 
Impact of income tax (20,093,234.14)  / 
The impact of minority equity (94,579,719.28) / 
Total 162,465,382.38 / 
 
The Basis for Preparing the Schedule of Non-recurring Gains and Losses: 
According to the provisions of the China Securities Regulatory Commission's "Announcement No. 1 on the Interpretation 
of Information Disclosure for Publicly Issued Securities - Non-recurring Gains and Losses (2023 Revision), " non-
recurring gains and losses refer to the gains and losses arising from transactions and events that are not directly related to 
the company's normal business operations, or although related to normal business operations, are of a special nature and 
occur infrequently, thereby affecting the ability of financial statement users to make correct judgments about the 
company's operating performance and profitability. 
 
2. Return on Net Assets and Earnings per Share 
 
The return on net assets and earnings per share have been prepared by Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
in accordance with the Information Disclosure and Presentation Rules for Companies Making Public Offering of 
Securities No. 9 – Calculation and Disclosure of Return on Net Assets and Earnings per Share (Revised in 2010) issued 
by China Securities Regulatory Commission. 
Unit: RMB 
Profit for the reporting period 
Weighted 
average return on 
net assets (%) 
Earnings per share  
Basic earnings per 
share 
Diluted earnings per 
share 
Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
Company 15.34 1.297 1.297 
Net profit excluding non-recurring items of profit or loss 
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company 15.14 1.280 1.280 
                                            Hikvision 2024 Annual Report 
369 
Section XI Documents Available for Reference 
1. The financial report was signed and sealed by the person in charge of the Company, the person in 
charge of accounting work and person in charge of accounting organization (Accounting Supervisor);  
 
2. The original audit report containing the seal of the a ccounting firm and the signature and seal of 
the certified public accountant; 
 
3. Original versions and copies of all the Company's documents and announcements that were 
publicly disclosed on the website designated by CSRC during the reporting period. 
 
The above documents are completely placed at the Company's board of directors' office. 
 
 
 
Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co., Ltd. 
Chairman: Hu Yangzhong  
April 19, 2025  
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  
This document is a translated version of the Chinese version 2024 Annual Report ("2024 年年度报
告"), and the published announcements in the Chinese version shall prevail. The complete published 
Chinese 2024 Annual Report may be obtained at www.cninfo.com.cn. 